<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore, hear my speeches, Job, and listen to all my words.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Behold, I have opened my mouth; let my tongue speak along with my throat.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My words are from my simple heart, and my lips will speak a pure judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The Spirit of God made me, and the breath of the Almighty gave me life.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If you can, answer me, and oppose me to my face.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, God has made me, just as he also has made you, and I, likewise, have been formed of the same clay.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So, truly, do not let my wonders terrify you, and do not let my eloquence be burdensome to you.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For you have spoken in my hearing, and I have heard the voice of your words, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> "I am clean and without sin; I am immaculate, and there is no iniquity in me.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet he has discovered blame in me, and so he has treated me like his enemy.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He has put my feet in fetters; he has kept watch over all my ways."</p>

<p><a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore, it is for this reason that you have not been justified. For I tell you that God is greater than man.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Do you contend against him because he has not responded to all of your words?</p>

<p><a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> God speaks once, and he does not repeat the same thing a second time.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Through a dream in a vision of the night, when a deep sleep falls over men, and they are sleeping in their beds,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> then, he opens the ears of men, and, educating them, he teaches discipline,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> so that he may divert a man from the things that he is doing, and may free him from pride,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> rescuing his soul from corruption and his life from passing away by the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Likewise, he rebukes by sorrow in bed, and he causes all of his bones to become weak.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Bread becomes abominable to him in his life, and, to his soul, the meat which before he desired.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His body will waste away, and his bones, which had been covered, will be revealed.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> His soul has approached corruption, and his life has drawn near to what is deadly.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If there were an angel speaking for him, one among thousands, to declare the fairness of the man,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> he will have mercy on him, and he will say, "Free him, so that he will not descend to destruction. I have found a reason to be favorable to him.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> His body is consumed by suffering. Let him return to the days of his youth."</p>

<p><a id="c33_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He will beg pardon from God, and he will be soothing to him; and he will look upon his face in jubilation, and he will restore his justice to man.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He will consider mankind, and he will say: "I have sinned and truly I have offended, yet I was not treated as I deserved."</p>

<p><a id="c33_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He has freed his soul from continuing into destruction, so that, in living, it may see the light.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Behold, all these things God works three times within each one,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> so that he may revive their souls from corruption and enlighten them with the light of life.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Pay attention Job, and listen to me; and remain silent, while I speak.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Yet, if you have anything to say, answer me and speak, for I want you to be treated justly.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But if you do not have anything to say, then listen to me. Be quiet and I will teach you wisdom.</p>

</body>
</html>