<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The life of a man on the earth is a battle, and his days are like the days of a hired hand.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Just as a servant desires the shade, and just as the hired hand looks forward to the end of his work,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> so also have I had empty months and have counted my burdensome nights.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If I lie down to sleep, I will say, "When will I rise?" And next I will hope for the evening and will be filled with sorrows even until darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My flesh is clothed with particles of rottenness and filth; my skin is dried up and tightened.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My days have passed by more quickly than threads are cut by a weaver, and they have been consumed without any hope.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember that my life is wind, and my eye will not return to see good things.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Neither will the sight of man gaze upon me; your eyes are upon me, and I will not endure.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Just as a cloud is consumed and passes away, so he who descends to hell will not ascend.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He will not return again to his house, nor will his own place know him any longer.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And because of this, I will not restrain my mouth. I will speak in the affliction of my spirit. I will converse from the bitterness of my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Am I an ocean or a whale, that you have encircled me in a prison?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If I say, "My bed will comfort me, and I will find rest, speaking with myself on my blanket,"</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> then you will frighten me with dreams, and strike dread through visions,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> so that, because of these things, my soul would choose hanging, and my bones, death.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I despair; by no means will I live any longer. Spare me, for my days are nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> What is man, that you should praise him? Or why do you place your heart near him?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> You visit him at dawn, and you test him unexpectedly.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How long will you not spare me, nor release me to ingest my saliva?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I have sinned; what should I do for you, O keeper of men? Why have you set me against you, so that I have become burdensome even to myself?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Why do you not steal away my sin, and why do you not sweep away my iniquity? Behold, now I will sleep in the dust, and if you seek me in the morning, I will not remain.</p>

</body>
</html>