<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But Eliphaz the Themanite, answering, said:</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Will a wise man answer as if he were speaking wind, and will he fill his stomach with fire?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You rebuke with words he who is not equal to you, and you speak what is not expedient for you,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> to such an extent that, within yourself, you have expelled reverence and have taken away prayers from the presence of God.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For your iniquity has mislead your mouth, and you imitate the tongue of blasphemers.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Your own mouth will condemn you, not I; and your own lips will answer you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Are you the first man who was born, or were you formed before the hills?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Have you heard the intentions of God, and will his wisdom be inferior to you?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What do you know, about which we are ignorant? What do you understand that we do not know?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> There are with us both aged and ancient men, even more senior than your fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Is it so important that God should console you? But your own depraved words prevent this.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Why does your heart exalt you, and why do you gaze with your eyes, as if thinking great things?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Why does your spirit stir against God, so as to utter such speeches from your mouth?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What is man that he should be immaculate, and that he should appear just, having been born of woman?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, among his holy ones not one is immutable, and even the heavens are not pure in his sight.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> How much more abominable and useless is the man who drinks as if from the water of iniquity?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will reveal to you, so listen to me; and I will explain to you what I have seen.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The wise acknowledge, and they do not leave behind, their fathers,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> to whom alone the earth has been given, and no stranger passed among them.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The impious is arrogant for all his days, and the number of the years of his tyranny is uncertain.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The sound of terror is always in his ears; and when there is peace, he always suspects treason.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He does not believe that it is possible for him to be turned from darkness into the light, for he sees around him the sword on every side.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> When he moves himself to seek bread, he knows that the day of darkness has been prepared for his hand.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Tribulation will terrify him, and anguish will prevail over him, like a king who is being prepared to go to battle.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he has extended his hand against God, and he has strengthened himself against the Almighty.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He has rushed against him with his throat exposed, and he has been armed with a fat neck.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Thickness has covered his face, and lard hangs down from his sides.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He has lived in desolate cities and deserted houses, which have been turned into tombs.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He will not be enriched, nor will his basic necessities endure, nor will he establish his root in the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He will not withdraw from the darkness; the flame will burn up his branches, and he will be defeated by the breath of his own mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He will not believe, being vainly deceived by error, that he could be redeemed at any price.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Before his time is completed, he will pass into ruin and his hands will wither away.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He will be wounded like a grapevine, when its cluster is in first flower, and like an olive tree that casts off its flower.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For the congregation of the hypocrites is fruitless, and fire will devour the tabernacles of those who love to accept money.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He has conceived sorrow, and he has brought forth iniquity, and his womb prepares deceit.</p>

</body>
</html>