<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I will not rouse him, as the cruel would do, for who is able to withstand my countenance?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who has given to me beforehand, so that I should repay him? All things that are under heaven are mine.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will not spare him, nor his powerful words and counterfeit attempts at supplication.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who can reveal the beauty of his garment? And who can enter the middle of his mouth?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who can open the doors of his face? I gave fear to the circle of his teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> His body is like shields fused together, like dense scales pressed over one another.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> One is joined to another, and not even air can pass between them.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They adhere to one another, and they hold themselves in place and will not be separated.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> His sneezing has the brilliance of fire, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the morning.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Lamps proceed from his mouth, like torches of fire burning brightly.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Smoke passes out of his nostrils, like a pot that is heated and boiling.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His breath causes coal to burn, and a flame comes forth from his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Strength dwells in his neck, and destitution goes before his presence.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The parts of his body work in harmony together. He will send lightning bolts against him, and they will not be carried to another place.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> His heart will be as hard as a stone and as dense as a blacksmith's anvil.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When he will be raised up, the angels will be afraid, and, because they are terrified, they will purify themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> When a sword catches up with him, it will not be able to settle in, nor a spear, nor a breastplate.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For he will consider iron as if it were chaff, and brass as if it were rotten wood.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The archer will not cause him to flee; the stones of the sling have been turned into stubble for him.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He will treat the hammer as if it were stubble, and he will ridicule those who brandish the spear.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The beams of the sun will be under him, and he will dispense gold to them as if it were clay.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He will make the depths of the sea boil like a pot, and he will set it to bubble just as ointments do.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> A path will shine after him; he will esteem the abyss as if it were weakening with age.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> There is no power on the earth that is being compared to him, who has been made so that he fears no one.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He sees every prominent thing; he is king over all the sons of arrogance.</p>

</body>
</html>