<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But these three men ceased to answer Job, because he considered himself justified.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Eliu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the kindred of Ram, was angry and indignant. But he was angry against Job because he described himself to be just in the presence of God.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Moreover, he was indignant with his friends because they had not found a reasonable response, except in so far as they condemned Job.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore, Eliu waited while Job was talking, for these were his elders that were speaking.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But when he saw that these three were not able to respond, he was extremely angry.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And so Eliu the son of Barachel the Buzite responded by saying: I am younger in years, and you are more ancient; therefore, I kept my head low, for I was afraid to reveal to you my opinion.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For I had hoped that greater age would speak, and that a multitude of years would teach wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But I see now that there is only breath in men, and that it is the inspiration of the Almighty that gives understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The wise are not the aged, nor do the elders understand judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, I will speak. Listen to me, and so I will show you my wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For I have endured your words; I have paid attention to your deliberations, while you were being argumentative with words.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And as long as I supposed that you were saying something, I considered; but now I see that there is none of you that is able to argue with Job and to respond to his words.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So that you will not say, "We have found wisdom," God has thrown him down, not man.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He has said nothing to me, and I will not respond to him according to your words.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then they were filled with dread, and so they no longer responded, and they withdrew from their speechmaking.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, because I have waited and they have not been speaking, for they stood firm and did not respond at all,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I also will answer in my turn, and I will reveal my knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I am full of words, and the feeling in my gut inspires me.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yes, my stomach is like fermenting wine without a vent, which bursts the new containers.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I should speak, but I will also breathe a little; I will open my lips, and I will answer.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I will not esteem the reputation of a man, and I will not equate God with man.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I do not know how long I will continue, and whether, after a while, my Maker might take me away.</p>

</body>
</html>