<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But Eliphaz the Themanite, answering, said:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> If we start to speak to you, perhaps you will take it badly, but who can hold back the words he has conceived?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Behold, you have taught many, and you have strengthened weary hands.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Your words have reassured the wavering, and you have fortified the trembling knees.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But now the scourge has overcome you, and you falter. It has touched you, and you are disturbed.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Where is your reverence, your fortitude, your patience, and the perfection of your ways?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Consider this, I beg you: who ever perished being innocent? Or when have the righteous been destroyed?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In fact, I have instead seen those who work iniquity and who sow resentments, reap them,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> perishing by the breath of God, and being consumed by the wrath of his spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The roaring of the lion, and the voice of the lioness, and the teeth of young lions have been worn away.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The tiger has perished because it does not have prey, and the young lions have been scattered.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Furthermore, a word was spoken to me in secret, and, as if by theft, my ears received the pulse of its whisper.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In the horror of a vision by night, when men are accustomed to be overtaken by a deep sleep,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> fear and trembling seized me and all my bones were terrified.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And when a spirit passed before me, the hair on my body stood up.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> There appeared an image before my eyes, someone whose face I did not recognize, and I heard a voice like a gentle breeze.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Should man be justified in relation to God, or will a man be more pure than his Maker?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold, those who serve him are not steadfast, and in his angels he finds imperfection.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How much more will those who live in houses of clay, which have an earthly foundation, be consumed like the moth?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> From morning all the way to evening, they will be cut down, and because no one understands, they will be destroyed without ceasing.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But those who are left behind will be taken away from them; they will die, and not in wisdom.</p>

</body>
</html>