<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 34</h2>

<p><a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After proclaiming these things, Eliu now had this to say:</p>

<p><a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> May the wise hear my words, and may the educated listen to me.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the ear examines words, and the mouth discerns foods by the taste.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let us choose judgment for ourselves, and let us consider among ourselves what is best.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For Job has said: "I am just, yet God has subverted my judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For, within my judgment, there is a lie: my vehement barbs are without any sin."</p>

<p><a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What man is there that is like Job, who drinks up derision as if it were water,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> who accompanies those who work iniquity, and who walks with impious men?</p>

<p><a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he has said, "Man will not please God, even if he should travel with him."</p>

<p><a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, prudent men, hear me: impiety is far from God, and iniquity is far from the Almighty.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he will restore to man his works, and according to the ways of each, he will repay them.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For truly, God will not condemn in vain, nor will the Almighty repudiate judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> What other is established over the earth? Or whom has he placed over the world, which he made?</p>

<p><a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But, if he directs his heart towards him, he will draw his spirit and breath to himself.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All flesh will fail together, and man will return to ashes.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, if you have understanding, hear what is said, and heed the sound of my eloquence.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Is he that does not love judgment able to be corrected? And how can you so greatly condemn him who is just?</p>

<p><a id="c34_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He says to the king, "You are an apostate." He calls commanders impious.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He does not accept the reputation of leaders; nor does he recognize the tyrant as he contends against the poor. For all are the work of his hands.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They will die suddenly, and the people will be troubled in the middle of the night, but they will pass through it, and the violent will be taken away without a hand.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For his eyes are upon the ways of men, and he examines all of their steps.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> There is no darkness and no shadow of death, where those who work iniquity may be hidden.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For it is no longer within the power of man to enter into judgment with God.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He will break into many innumerable pieces, and he will cause others to stand up in their place.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he knows their works, and, as a result, he will bring the night, and they will be crushed.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Just as the impious do, he has struck them in a place where they can be seen.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They, as if with great diligence, have withdrawn from him, and they refused to understand all his ways,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> so that they caused the outcry of the needy to reach him, and he heard the voice of the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For, when he grants peace, who is there that can condemn? When he hides his face, who is there that can contemplate him, either among the nations, or among all men?</p>

<p><a id="c34_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He causes a hypocritical man to reign because of the sins of the people.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore, since I have been speaking about God, I will not prevent you from doing the same.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> If I have erred, you may teach me; if I have spoken unfairly, I will add no more.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Does God require this of you because it is displeasing to you? For you were the first to speak, and not I. But if you know something better, speak.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Let men of understanding speak to me, and let a wise man listen to me.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> But Job has been speaking foolishly, and his words contain unsound teaching.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> My father, let Job be tested even to the end; may you not retreat from a man of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For he adds blasphemy on top of his sins; nevertheless, let him be constrained to be among us, and then let him provoke God to judgment with his speeches.</p>

</body>
</html>