<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Job also added to this, using figures of speech, and he said:</p>

<p><a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who will grant to me that I might be as I was in former months, according to the days when God kept watch over me?</p>

<p><a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> At that time, his lamp shined over my head, and by his light, I walked through the darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I was then just as in the days of my youth, when God was privately in my tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> At that time, the Almighty was with me and my children surrounded me.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then, I washed my feet with butter, and a boulder poured out rivers of oil for me.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When I went to the gate of the city, or to the main street, they prepared a chair for me.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The youths saw me and hid themselves, and the elders, rising up, remained standing.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The leaders stopped talking, and they placed a finder over their mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The commanders subdued their voice, and their tongue adhered to their throat.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The ear that heard me, blessed me, and the eye that saw me, gave testimony for me.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> This was because I had freed the poor, who cried out, and the orphan, who had no helper.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The blessing of him who would have been destroyed came upon me, and I consoled the heart of the widow.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I put on justice, and I clothed myself with my judgment, like a robe and a diadem.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I was an eye for the blind and a foot for the lame.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I was the father of the poor; and if I lacked knowledge about any case, I investigated very diligently.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I crushed the jaws of the impious, and I took away prey from his teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And I said, "I will die in my little nest, and like a palm tree, I will multiply my days.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> My root has been spread beside the waters, and the dew will remain with my harvest.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My glory will always be restored, and my bow will be restored to my hand."</p>

<p><a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Those who heard me, expected vindication, and they listened closely in silence to my counsel.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> To my words, they dared to add nothing, and my eloquence poured over them.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They waited for me as for rain, and they opened their mouth as for belated rains.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If I had ever laughed at them, they would not have believed it, and the light of my face was not cast down towards the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> If I wished to go to them, I sat down first, and, though I sat like a king surrounded by an army, yet I was a comforter to whose who mourned.</p>

</body>
</html>