<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold, my eye has seen all these things, and my ear has heard, and I have understood each one.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In conformity with your knowledge, I also know. I am not inferior to you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yet I speak this way to the Almighty, and I desire to argue with God,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> having first shown that you fabricate lies and cultivate perverse teachings.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I wish that you would remain silent, so that you would be counted among the wise.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, listen to my correction, and pay attention to the judgment of my lips.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Does God require your lie, so that you would speak deceitfully for him?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Have you taken his place, and do you struggle to give judgment in favor of God?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Or, will it please him, from whom nothing can be concealed? Or, will he be deceived, like a man, by your deceitfulness?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He will accuse you because in secret you have preempted his presence.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As soon as he moves himself, he will disturb you, and his dread will fall over you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Your remembrance will be compared to ashes, and your necks will be reduced to clay.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be silent for a little while, so that I may speak whatever my mind suggests to me.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Why do I wound my flesh with my teeth, and carry my soul in my hands?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And now, if he would kill me, I will hope in him; in this, truly, I will correct my ways in his sight.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he will be my savior, for no hypocrite at all will approach in his sight.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Listen to my words, and perceive an enigma with your ears.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If I will be judged, I know that I will be found to be just.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Who is it that will go to judgment with me? Let him approach. Why should I be consumed in silence?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Do not do such things to me twice, and then I will not hide from your face.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Take your hand far away from me, and do not let your dread terrify me.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Call me, and I will answer you, or else I will speak, and you can answer me.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> How many iniquities and sins do I have? Reveal my crimes and offenses to me.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Why do you conceal your face and consider me to be your enemy?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Against a leaf, which is carried away by the wind, you reveal your power, and you pursue dry straw.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For you write bitter things against me, and you want to consume me for the sins of my youth.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> You have put my feet on a tether, and you have observed all my paths, and you have considered the steps of my feet.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I will be left to decay like something rotten and like a garment that is being eaten by moths.</p>

</body>
</html>