<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore call, if there are any who will respond to you, and turn to one or another of the saints.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Truly, anger condemns the foolish to death, and envy kills the petty.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have seen a fool with a strong root, and I have cursed his excellence without hesitation.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> His sons will be far from prosperity and will be crushed at the gate, and there will be none who can rescue them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Their harvest, the starving will eat. The armed man will rob him, and the thirsty will drink his resources.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Nothing on earth occurs without a reason, and sorrow does not rise from the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Man is born to labor, and the bird to fly.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore, because of this, I will beg the Lord, and place my eloquence before God.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He does great and unfathomable and miraculous things without number.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He gives rain over the face of the earth and irrigates all things with the waters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He places the humble on high and encourages the grieving towards health.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He dispels the thoughts of the spiteful, lest their hands be able to complete what they had begun.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He catches the wise in their cleverness and dissipates the counsel of the perverse.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They will encounter darkness in the daytime, and they will grope at midday just as in the night.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thereafter, he will act to save the needy from the sword of their mouth, and the poor from the hand of the violent.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And there will be hope for those in need, for iniquity will diminish its speech.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Blessed is the man whom God corrects; therefore, do not reject the chastisement of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For he wounds and he cures; he strikes and his hands will heal.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He will deliver you into six tribulations, and in the seventh, evil will not touch you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> During famine, he will rescue you from death, and during war, from the hand of the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You will be hidden from the scourge of the tongue, and you will not fear calamity when it arrives.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In desolation and in famine, you will laugh, and you will not dread the beasts of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For you are in harmony with the stones of the land, and the beasts of the earth will make peace with you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And you will know that your home has peace, and, concerning your appearance, you will not sin.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Likewise, you will know that your offspring will be manifold and your progeny will be like the grass of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> You will enter the grave with abundance, just as a crop of wheat is gathered in its time.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Behold, this is just as we have found it, which you have heard; walk it through your mind.</p>

</body>
</html>