<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My spirit will be wasted, my days will be shortened, and only the grave will left for me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have not sinned, yet my eye remains in bitterness.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Free me, O Lord, and set me beside you, and let the hand of anyone you wish fight against me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You have set their heart far from discipline; therefore, they will not be praised.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He promises prey to his companions, but the eyes of his sons will grow faint.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He has posted me like a proverb to the people, and I am an example in their presence.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> My eyesight has been clouded by indignation, and my limbs have been reduced, as if to nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The just will be astounded over this, and the innocent will be stirred up against the hypocrite.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the just will cling to his way, and clean hands will increase strength.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, be converted, all of you, and approach, for I do not find in you any wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My days have passed away; my thoughts have been scattered, tormenting my heart.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They have turned night into day, and I hope for light again after the darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If I should wait, the underworld is my house, and in darkness I have spread out my bed.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have said to decay and to worms: "You are my father, my mother, and my sister."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore, where is my expectation now, and who is it that considers my patience?</p>

<p><a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Everything of mine will descend into the deepest underworld; do you think that, in that place at least, there will be rest for me?</p>

</body>
</html>