<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But Zophar the Naamathite, responding, said:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Will he who speaks much, not also listen? Or will a talkative man be justified?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Will men be silent only for you? And when you have mocked others, will no one refute you?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For you said: "My word is pure, and I am clean in your sight."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yet I wish that God would speak with you, and would open his lips to you,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> so that he might reveal to you the secrets of wisdom, and how intricate his law is, and that you would understand how much less he requires of you than your iniquity deserves.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> By chance, will you comprehend the footsteps of God and reach all the way to the perfection of the Almighty?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He is higher than heaven, and what will you do? He is deeper than hell, but how will you know?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> His measure is longer than the earth and wider than the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If he overturns all things, or packs them together, who will contradict him?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he knows the vanity of men, and when he sees iniquity, does he not evaluate it?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A vain man is lifted up in arrogance, and he thinks that he is born free like a wild ass's colt.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But you have fortified your heart and extended your hands to him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If you would send away from you the iniquity that is in your hand, and not let injustice remain in your tabernacle,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> then you would be able to lift up your face without blemish, and you would be steadfast and unafraid.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Misery, likewise, you would forget, or would remember only like waters that have passed by.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And brightness, like that of midday, will rise upon you until evening, and when you would think yourself consumed, you will rise up like the morning star.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And, when hope has been set before you, you will have faith, and, when buried, you will sleep secure.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> You will rest, and there will be nothing to make you afraid, and many will make requests before your face.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the eyes of the impious will fade away, and the path to escape will perish before them, for the abomination of the soul is their hope.</p>

</body>
</html>