<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I reached an agreement with my eyes, that I would not so much as think about a virgin.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For what portion should God from above hold for me, and what inheritance should the Almighty from on high keep?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Is not destruction held for the wicked and repudiation kept for those who work injustice?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Does he not examine my ways and number all my steps?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If I have walked in vanity, or if my foot has hurried towards deceitfulness,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> let him weigh me in a just balance, and let God know my simplicity.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If my steps have turned aside from the way, or if my heart has followed my eyes, or if a blemish has clung to my hands,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> then may I sow, and let another consume, and let my offspring be eradicated.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If my heart has been deceived over a woman, or if I have waited in ambush at my friend's door,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> then let my wife be the harlot of another, and let other men lean over her.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For this is a crime and a very great injustice.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> It is a fire devouring all the way to perdition, and it roots out all that springs forth.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If I have despised being subject to judgment with my servant or my maid, when they had any complaint against me,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> then what will I do when God rises to judge, and, when he inquires, how will I respond to him?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Is not he who created me in the womb, also he who labored to make him? And did not one and the same form me in the womb?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If I have denied the poor what they wanted and have made the eyes of the widow wait;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> if I have eaten my morsel of food alone, while orphans have not eaten from it;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> (for from my infancy mercy grew with me, and it came out with me from my mother's womb;)</p>

<p><a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> if I have looked down on him who was perishing because he had no clothing and the poor without any covering,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> if his sides have not blessed me, and if he were not warmed with the fleece of my sheep;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> if I have lifted up my hand over an orphan, even when it might seem to me that I the advantage over him at the gate;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> then may my shoulder fall from its joint, and may my arm, with all its bones, be broken.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For I have always feared God, like waves flowing over me, whose weight I was unable to bear.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If I have considered gold to be my strength, or if I have called purified gold 'my Trust;'</p>

<p><a id="c31_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> if I have rejoiced over my great success, and over the many things my hand has obtained;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> if I gazed upon the sun when it shined and the moon advancing brightly,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> so that my heart rejoiced in secret and I kissed my hand with my mouth,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> which is a very great iniquity and a denial against the most high God;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> if I have been glad at the ruin of him who hated me and have exulted that evil found him,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> for I have not been given my throat to sin by asking for a curse on his soul;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> if the men around my tabernacle have not said: "He might give us some of his food, so that we will be filled,"</p>

<p><a id="c31_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> for the foreigner did not remain at the door, my door was open to the traveler;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> if, as man does, I have hidden my sin and have concealed my iniquity in my bosom;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> if I became frightened by an excessive crowd, and the disrespect of close relatives alarmed me, so that I would much rather have remained silent or have gone out the door;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> then, would he grant me a hearing, so that the Almighty would listen to my desire, and he who judges would himself write a book,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> which I would then carry on my shoulder and wrap around me like a crown?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> With each of my steps, I would pronounce and offer it, as if to a prince.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> So, if my land cries out against me, and if its furrows weep with it,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> if I have used its fruits for nothing but money and have afflicted the souls of its tillers,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> then, may thistles spring forth for me instead of grain, and thorns instead of barley. (This ended the words of Job.)</p>

</body>
</html>