<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Zophar the Naamathite answered by saying:</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In response, various thoughts succeed one another in me, and my mind moves quickly through different ideas.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The teaching you use to admonish me, I will hear, and the spirit of my understanding will respond for me.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> This, I know, is from the beginning, from the time that man was set over the earth:</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> that the praise of the impious shall be short, and the joy of the hypocrite lasts only a moment.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If his pride ascends even towards the heavens, and his head touches the clouds,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> in the end, he will be destroyed like a trash heap, and those who had seen him will say: "Where is he?"</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Like a dream that flies away, he will not be found; he will pass away like a nightmare.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The eyes that had seen him, will not see him; no longer will his own place admire him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His sons will be worn away by poverty, and his own hands will deliver his grief to him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> His bones will be filled with the vices of his youth, and they will sleep with him in the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For, when evil will be sweet in his mouth, he will hide it under his tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He will permit it, and not abandon it, and he will conceal it in his throat.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> His bread in his belly will be turned into the venom of snakes within him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The riches that he devours, he will vomit up, and from his stomach God will draw them out.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He will suck the head of snakes, and the tongue of the viper will kill him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> (May he never see the streams of the river, the torrents of honey and butter.)</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He will be repaid for all he has done, yet he will not be consumed; according to the multitude of his schemes, so also will he suffer.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For, having broken in, he stripped the poor. He has quickly stolen away a house he did not build.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And yet his stomach will not be satisfied, and when he has the things he desires, he will not be able to possess them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Nothing remained of his portion, and, because of this, nothing will continue of his kind.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When he will be satisfied, he will be constrained; he will seethe, and all anguish will fall upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> May his stomach be filled, so that God may send forth the fury of his wrath to him and may rain down his battle upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He will flee from weapons of iron, and he will fall in an arc of brass,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> which had been drawn and had issued forth from its sheath, glittering in its bitterness: the horrible ones will go forth and approach over him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> All darkness has been hidden in his secrecy. A fire that has not been set will devour him; he will be thrown down and forsaken in his tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The heavens will reveal his sinfulness, and the earth will rise up against him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The offspring of his house will be exposed; he will be pulled down in the day of God's wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> This is the portion of a wicked man from God, and the inheritance of his words from the Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>