<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But Job answered by saying:</p>

<p><a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How long will you afflict my soul and wear me down with words?</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> So, ten times you confound me and are not ashamed to oppress me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now, of course, if I have been ignorant, my ignorance will be with me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But you have risen up against me, and you accuse me to my disgrace.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> At least now you should understand that God has not afflicted me with a balanced judgment, though he has encompassed me with his scourges.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, I will cry out, enduring violence, and no one will hear. I will announce loudly, but there is no one who may judge.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He has hemmed in my path, and I cannot pass; he has added darkness to my difficult path.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He has plundered me of my glory, and he has stolen the crown from my head.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He has destroyed me on every side, and I am lost, and, like an uprooted tree, he has taken away my hope.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> His fury has raged against me, and in this way he has treated me like his enemy.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His troops have gathered together, and they have made their way to me, and they have besieged my tabernacle all around.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He has put my brothers far from me, and my friends have withdrawn from me like strangers.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My kinsmen have forsaken me, and those who knew me, have forgotten me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The inhabitants of my house and my maidservants treat me just as if I were a stranger, and I have been like an sojourner in their eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I called my servant, and he did not respond; I pleaded with him with my own mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> My wife has shuddered at my breath, and I have begged the sons of my loins.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Even the foolish have looked down on me, and, when I withdrew from them, they spoke ill of me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Those who were sometime my counselors, treat me like an abomination; and he whom I valued the most has turned against me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Since my flesh has been consumed, my bone adheres to my skin, and only my lips have been left around my teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Have mercy on me, have compassion on me, at least you my friends, because the hand of the Lord has touched me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Why do you pursue me just as God does, and satiate yourselves with my flesh?</p>

<p><a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Who will grant to me that my words may be written down? Who will grant to me that they may be inscribed in a book,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> with an iron pen and a plate of lead, or else be carved in stone?</p>

<p><a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For I know that my Redeemer lives, and on the last day I will rise out of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And I will be enveloped again with my skin, and in my flesh I will see my God.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> It is he whom I myself will see, and he whom my eyes will behold, and no other. This, my hope, has taken rest in my bosom.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Why then do you now say: "Let us pursue him, and let us find a basis to speak against him?"</p>

<p><a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> So then, flee from the face of the sword, for the sword is the avenger of iniquities; but know this: there is to be a judgment.</p>

</body>
</html>