<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job, answering, said:</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Are you, therefore, alone among men, and will wisdom die with you?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I have a heart just as you also do, and I am not inferior to you. For who is ignorant of these things, which you know?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He who is mocked by his friends as I am, will call upon God, and he will listen to him because it is the sincerity of the just that is being mocked.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The lamp that is despised in the thoughts of the rich is ready for the appointed time.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The tabernacles of robbers are numerous, and they provoke God boldly; whereas, it is he who has given all things into their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In truth, ask the mules, and they will teach you, and the birds of the sky, and they will reveal to you.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Speak with the earth, and it will respond to you, and the fish of the sea will explain.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who is ignorant that the hand of the Lord has made all these things?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In his hand is the soul of all the living and the spirit of all the flesh of mankind.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Does not the ear perceive words, and the palate, when eating, perceive flavor?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In old age is wisdom, and in length of days is prudence.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> With him is wisdom and strength, he has counsel and understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If he tears down, there is no one who can build up; if he encloses a man, there is no one who can open.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If he restrains the waters, everything will dry up; and if he sends them forth, they will subdue the land.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> With him is strength and wisdom; he knows both the deceiver and he who is deceived.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He leads advisors to a foolish end and judges to stupidity.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He removes the belt of kings and encircles their waist with a rope.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He leads away priests in dishonor and displaces nobles,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> altering the lips of those who speak the truth and sweeping away the teaching of the aged.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He pours distain upon the leaders, relieving those who had been oppressed.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He reveals the depths of the darkness, and he brings the shadow of death into the light.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He multiplies peoples, and destroys them, and, having been overthrown, he restores them anew.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He transforms the heart of the leaders of the people on earth, and misleads those who in vain advance upon the inviolable.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> They will grope as in the darkness, not the light, and he will make them stagger like drunkards.</p>

</body>
</html>