<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My soul is weary of my life. I will release my words against myself. I will speak in the bitterness of my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will say to God: Do not be willing to condemn me. Reveal to me why you judge me this way.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Does it seem good to you, if you find fault with me and oppress me, the work of your own hands, and assist the counsel of the impious?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Do you have bodily eyes? Or, just as man sees, will you see?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Are your days just like the days of man, and are your years as the times of humans,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> so that you would inquire about my iniquity and examine my sin?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And you know that I have done nothing impious, yet there is no one who can deliver from your hand.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Your hands have made me and formed me all around, and, in this way, do you suddenly throw me away?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Remember, I ask you, that you have fashioned me like clay, and you will reduce me to dust.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Have you not extracted me like milk and curdled me like cheese?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You have clothed me with skin and flesh. You have put me together with bones and nerves.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You have assigned to me life and mercy, and your visitation has preserved my spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Though you may conceal this in your heart, yet I know that you remember everything.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If I have sinned, and you have spared me for an hour, why do you not endure me to be clean from my iniquity?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And if I should be impious, woe to me, and if I should be just, I will not lift up my head, being drenched with affliction and misery.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And because of pride, you will seize me like a lioness, and having returned, you torment me to an extraordinary degree.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> You renew your testimony against me, and you multiply your wrath against me, and these punishments make war within me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Why did you lead me out of the womb? If only I had been consumed, so that no eye would ever see me!</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I should have been as if I had not been: transferred from the womb to the tomb.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Will not my few days be completed soon? Release me, therefore, so that I may lament my sorrows a little,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> before I depart and return no more to a land that is dark and covered with the fog of death,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> a land of misery and darkness, where the shadow of death, and nothing else but everlasting horror, dwells.</p>

</body>
</html>