<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job responded by saying:</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I beseech you to hear my words and to do penance.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Permit me, and I will speak, and afterwards, if you see fit, you can laugh at my words.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Is my dispute against man, so that I would have no reason to be discouraged?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Listen to me and be astonished, and place a finger over your mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> As for me, when I think it over, I am afraid, and trembling convulses my body.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Why then do the impious live, having been lifted up and strengthened with riches?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They see their offspring continue before them: a commotion of close relatives and of children's children in their sight.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Their houses have been secure and peaceable, and there is no staff of God over them.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Their cattle have conceived and have not miscarried; their cow has given birth and is not deprived of her newborn.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Their little ones go out like a flock, and their children jump around playfully.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They take up the timbrel and the lyre, and they rejoice at the sound of the organ.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Their days are prolonged in wealth, yet, in an instant, they descend into hell.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Who has said to God, "Depart from us, for we do not want the knowledge of your ways.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Who is the Almighty that we should serve him? And how is it helpful to us if we pray to him?"</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It is true that their good things are not in their power. May the counsel of the impious be far from me!</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> How often will the lamp of the wicked be extinguished, and a deluge overtake them, and how often will he distribute the afflictions of his wrath?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They will be like chaff before the face of the wind, and like ashes that the whirlwind scatters.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> God will preserve the grief of the father for his sons, and, when he repays, then he will understand.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> His eyes will see his own destruction, and he will drink from the wrath of the Almighty.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For what does he care what happens to his house after him, or if the number of its months are reduced by half?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Can anyone teach holy knowledge to God, who judges the exalted?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> This one dies strong and healthy, rich and happy.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> His gut is full of fat and his bones are moistened with marrow.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> In truth, another dies in bitterness of soul, without any resources.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And yet they will sleep together in the dust, and worms will cover them.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Surely, I know your thoughts and your sinful judgments against me.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For you say, "Where is the house of the ruler, and where are the tabernacles of the impious?"</p>

<p><a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Ask any passerby whom you wish, and you will realize that he understands these same things:</p>

<p><a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> that the evil-doer is reserved for the day of destruction, and he will be led to the day of wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Who will reprove his way to his face, and who will repay him for what he has done?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He will be led to the tomb, and he will remain awake in the chaos of the dead.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He has been found acceptable to the banks of the River of Lamentation, and he will draw any man towards him, and there are countless before him.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Therefore, how long will you console me in vain, when your answer is shown to be repugnant to truth?</p>

</body>
</html>