<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 58</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 58</h2>

<p><a id="c58_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. May you not destroy. Of David, with the inscription of a title, when Saul sent and watched his house, in order to execute him.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Rescue me from my enemies, my God, and free me from those who rise up against me.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Rescue me from those who work iniquity, and save me from men of blood.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For behold, they have seized my soul. The strong have rushed upon me.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it is neither my iniquity, nor my sin, O Lord. I have run and gone directly, without iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Rise up to meet me, and see: even you, O Lord, the God of hosts, the God of Israel. Reach out to visit all nations. Do not take pity on all those who work iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They will return toward evening, and they will suffer hunger like dogs, and they will wander around the city.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behold, they will speak with their mouth, and a sword is in their lips: "For who has heard us?"</p>

<p><a id="c58_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And you, O Lord, will laugh at them. You will lead all the Gentiles to nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I will guard my strength toward you, for you are God, my supporter.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My God, his mercy will precede me.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> God will oversee my enemies for me. Do not slay them, lest at times my people may forget them. Scatter them by your virtue. And depose them, O Lord, my protector,</p>

<p><a id="c58_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> by the offense of their mouth and by the speech of their lips. And may they be caught in their arrogance. And, for their cursing and lying, they will be made known</p>

<p><a id="c58_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> at the consummation, in the fury of the consummation, and so they will be no more. And they will know that God will rule over Jacob, even to the ends of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They will return toward evening, and they will suffer hunger like dogs, and they will wander around the city.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They will be dispersed in order to gnaw, and truly, when they will not have been satisfied, they will murmur.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But I will sing your strength, and I will extol your mercy, in the morning. For you have been my supporter and my refuge in the day of my tribulation.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To you, my helper, I will sing psalms. For you are God, my supporter. My God is my mercy.</p>

</body>
</html>