<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 75</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 75</h2>

<p><a id="c75_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. With Praises. A Psalm of Asaph. A Canticle to the Assyrians.</p>

<p><a id="c75_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In Judea, God is known. In Israel, his name is great.</p>

<p><a id="c75_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And his place has been formed with peace. And his dwelling place is in Zion.</p>

<p><a id="c75_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In that place, he has broken the powers of the bows, the shield, the sword, and the battle.</p>

<p><a id="c75_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You illuminate wondrously from the mountains of eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c75_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> All the foolish of heart have been disturbed. They have slept their sleep, and all the men of riches have found nothing in their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c75_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> At your rebuke, O God of Jacob, those who were mounted on horseback have fallen asleep.</p>

<p><a id="c75_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You are terrible, and so, who can withstand you? From thence is your wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c75_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You have caused judgment to be heard from heaven. The earth trembled and was quieted,</p>

<p><a id="c75_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> when God rose up in judgment in order to bring salvation to all the meek of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c75_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the thinking of man will confess to you, and the legacy of his thinking will keep a feast day to you.</p>

<p><a id="c75_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Make vows and pay them to the Lord, your God. All you who surround him bring gifts: to him who is terrible,</p>

<p><a id="c75_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> even to him who takes away the spirit of leaders, to him who is terrible with the kings of the earth.</p>

</body>
</html>