<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The inscription of a title: of David himself. Preserve me, O Lord, because I have hoped in you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have said to the Lord: "You are my God, so you have no need of my goodness."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> As for the saints, who are in his land: he has made all my desires wonderful in them.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their infirmities have been multiplied; after this, they acted more quickly. I will not gather for their convocations of blood, nor will I remember their names with my lips.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The Lord is the portion of my inheritance and my cup. It is you who will restore my inheritance to me.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The lots have fallen upon me with clarity. And, indeed, my inheritance has been very clear to me.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will bless the Lord, who has bestowed understanding upon me. Moreover, my temperament has also corrected me, even through the night.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I have made provision for the Lord always in my sight. For he is at my right hand, so that I may not be disturbed.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Because of this, my heart has been joyful, and my tongue has exulted. Moreover, even my body will rest in hope.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For you will not abandon my soul to Hell, nor will you allow your holy one to see corruption.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You have made known to me the ways of life; you will fill me with joy by your countenance. At your right hand are delights, even to the end.</p>

</body>
</html>