<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David, at the completion of the tabernacle. Bring to the Lord, O sons of God, bring to the Lord the sons of rams.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Bring to the Lord, glory and honor. Bring to the Lord, glory for his name. Adore the Lord in his holy court.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The voice of the Lord is over the waters. The God of majesty has thundered. The Lord is over many waters.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The voice of the Lord is in virtue. The voice of the Lord is in magnificence.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The voice of the Lord shatters the cedars. And the Lord will shatter the cedars of Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And it will break them into pieces, like a calf of Lebanon, and in the same way as the beloved son of the single-horned beast.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The voice of the Lord cuts through the flame of fire.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The voice of the Lord shakes the desert. And the Lord will quake the desert of Kadesh.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The voice of the Lord is preparing the stags, and he will reveal the dense woods. And in his temple, all will speak his glory.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The Lord causes the great flood to dwell. And the Lord will sit as King in eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The Lord will give virtue to his people. The Lord will bless his people in peace.</p>

</body>
</html>