<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The understanding of David himself. Blessed are they whose iniquities have been forgiven and whose sins have been covered.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Blessed is the man to whom the Lord has not imputed sin, and in whose spirit there is no deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Because I was silent, my bones grew old, while still I cried out all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For, day and night, your hand was heavy upon me. I have been converted in my anguish, while still the thorn is piercing.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I have acknowledged my offense to you, and I have not concealed my injustice. I said, "I will confess against myself, my injustice to the Lord," and you forgave the impiety of my sin.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For this, everyone who is holy will pray to you in due time. Yet truly, in a flood of many waters, they will not draw near to him.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You are my refuge from the tribulation that has surrounded me. You are my exultation: rescue me from those who are surrounding me.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will give you understanding, and I will instruct you in this way, in which you will walk. I will fix my eyes upon you.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Do not become like the horse and the mule, which have no understanding. Their jaws are constrained with bit and bridle, so as not to draw near to you.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Many are the scourges of the sinner, but mercy will surround him that hopes in the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Rejoice in the Lord and exult, you just ones, and glory, all you upright of heart.</p>

</body>
</html>