<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 48</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 48</h2>

<p><a id="c48_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Psalm to the sons of Korah.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear these things, all nations. Pay attention, all inhabitants of the world:</p>

<p><a id="c48_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> whoever is earth-born, you sons of men, together as one, the rich and the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My mouth will speak wisdom, and the meditation of my heart will speak prudence.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I will incline my ear to a parable. I will open my case with the psaltery.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Why should I fear in the evil day? The iniquity at my heel will surround me.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Those who trust in their own strength and who glory in the multitude of their riches,</p>

<p><a id="c48_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> no brother redeems, nor will man buy back. He will not give to God his appeasement,</p>

<p><a id="c48_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> nor the price for the redemption of his soul. And he will labor continuously,</p>

<p><a id="c48_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and he will still live, until the end.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He will not see death, when he sees the wise dying: the foolish and the senseless will perish together. And they will leave their riches to strangers.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And their sepulchers will be their houses forever, their tabernacles from generation to generation. They have called their names in their own lands.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And man, when he was held in honor, did not understand. He has been compared to the senseless beasts, and he has become like them.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> This way of theirs is a scandal to them. And afterwards, they will delight in their mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They have been placed in Hell like sheep. Death will feed on them. And the just will have dominion over them in the morning. And their help will grow old in Hell for their glory.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Even so, truly God will redeem my soul from the hand of Hell, when he will receive me.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Do not be afraid, when a man will have been made rich, and when the glory of his house will have been multiplied.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For when he dies, he will take nothing away, and his glory will not descend with him.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For his soul will be blessed in his lifetime, and he will admit to you when you do good to him.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He will even enter with the progeny of his fathers, but, even in eternity, he will not see the light.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Man, when he was in honor, did not understand. He has been compared to the senseless beasts, and he has become like them.</p>

</body>
</html>