<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 90</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 90</h2>

<p><a id="c90_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Praise of a Canticle, of David. Whoever dwells with the assistance of the Most High will abide in the protection of the God of heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He will say to the Lord, "You are my supporter and my refuge." My God, I will hope in him.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For he has freed me from the snare of those who go hunting, and from the harsh word.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He will overshadow you with his shoulders, and you will hope under his wings.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> His truth will surround you with a shield. You will not be afraid: before the terror of the night,</p>

<p><a id="c90_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> before the arrow flying in the day, before the troubles that wander in the darkness, nor of invasion and the midday demon.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A thousand will fall before your side and ten thousand before your right hand. Yet it will not draw near you.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> So then, truly, you will consider with your eyes, and you will see the retribution of sinners.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For you, O Lord, are my hope. You have set the Most High as your refuge.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Disaster will not draw near to you, and the scourge will not approach your tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he has given his Angels charge over you, so as to preserve you in all your ways.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> With their hands, they will carry you, lest you hurt your foot against a stone.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You will walk over the asp and the king serpent, and you will trample the lion and the dragon.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Because he has hoped in me, I will free him. I will protect him because he has known my name.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He will cry out to me, and I will heed him. I am with him in tribulation. I will rescue him, and I will glorify him.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will fill him with length of days. And I will reveal to him my salvation.</p>

</body>
</html>