<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 106</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 106</h2>

<p><a id="c106_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Alleluia. Confess to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy is with every generation.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let those who have been redeemed by the Lord say so: those whom he redeemed from the hand of the enemy and gathered from the regions,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> from the rising of the sun and its setting, from the north and from the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They wandered into solitude in a waterless place. They did not find the way of the city to be their dwelling place.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They were hungry, and they were thirsty. Their soul fainted within them.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they cried out to the Lord in tribulation, and he rescued them in their necessity.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he led them in the right way, so that they might go forth to a city of habitation.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let his mercies confess to the Lord, and let his miracles confess to the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he has satisfied the empty soul, and he has satisfied the hungry soul with good things:</p>

<p><a id="c106_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> those sitting in darkness and in the shadow of death, shackled by extreme poverty and by iron.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For they exasperated the eloquence of God, and they irritated the deliberation of the Most High.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And their heart was brought low with hardships. They were weakened, and there was no one to help them.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they cried out to the Lord in their tribulation, and he freed them from their distress.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he led them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and he broke apart their chains.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let his mercies confess to the Lord, and let his miracles confess to the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For he has crushed the gates of brass and broken the iron bars.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He has taken them up, from the way of their iniquity. For they were brought low, because of their injustices.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Their soul abhorred all food, and they drew near even to the gates of death.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they cried out to the Lord in their tribulation, and he delivered them in their necessity.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He sent his word, and he healed them, and he rescued them from their utter destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let his mercies confess to the Lord, and let his miracles confess to the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And let them offer sacrifice with the sacrifice of praise, and let them announce his works in exultation.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Those who descend to the sea in ships, making their livelihood in the great waters:</p>

<p><a id="c106_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> these have seen the works of the Lord and his wonders in the deep.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He spoke: and a windstorm stood up, and its waves were exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They ascend even to the heavens, and they descend even to the abyss. Their soul will waste away in distress.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They were troubled, and they moved like a drunkard, and all their wisdom was consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they cried out to the Lord in their tribulation, and he led them out of their distress.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he replaced the storm with a breeze, and its waves were stilled.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And they were joyful that it was stilled, and he led them into the haven that they desired.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Let his mercies confess to the Lord, and let his miracles confess to the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And let them exalt him in the Church of the people, and praise him in the chair of the elders.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He has placed rivers in the desert and sources of water in dry places,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> a fruit-bearing land in the midst of brine, before the malice of those who dwell in it.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He has placed a desert in the midst of pools of waters, and a land without water in the midst of sources of water.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he has gathered the hungry together there, and they constructed a city of habitation.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they sowed fields and planted vineyards, and they produced the fruit of nativity.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he blessed them, and they were multiplied exceedingly. And he did not diminish their beasts of burden.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And they became few, and they were afflicted by the tribulation of evils and of sorrow.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Contempt was poured over their leaders, and he caused them to wander in an impassable place, and not on the way.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And he helped the poor out of destitution, and he stationed families like sheep.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The upright will see, and they will rejoice. And every iniquity will block its mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Who is wise and will keep these things? And who will understand the mercies of the Lord?</p>

</body>
</html>