<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Psalm of David according to an ecstasy.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In you, Lord, I have hoped; let me never be confounded. In your justice, deliver me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Incline your ear to me. Hasten to rescue me. Be for me a protector God and a house of refuge, so as to accomplish my salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For you are my strength and my refuge; and for the sake of your name, you will lead me and nourish me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You will lead me out of this snare, which they have hidden for me. For you are my protector.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Into your hands, I commend my spirit. You have redeemed me, O Lord, God of truth.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You have hated those who practice emptiness to no purpose. But I have hoped in the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will exult and rejoice in your mercy. For you have looked upon my humility; you have saved my soul from needfulness.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And you have not enclosed me in the hands of the enemy. You have set my feet in a spacious place.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Have mercy on me, Lord, for I am troubled. My eye has been disturbed by wrath, along with my soul and my gut.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For my life has fallen into sorrow, and my years into sighing. My virtue has been weakened in poverty, and my bones have been disturbed.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have become a disgrace among all my enemies, and even more so to my neighbors, and a dread to my acquaintances. Those who catch sight of me, flee away from me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I have become forgotten, like one dead to the heart. I have become like a damaged utensil.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For I have heard the harsh criticism of many who linger in the area. While assembled together against me in that place, they deliberated on how to take away my life.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But I have hoped in you, O Lord. I said, "You are my God."</p>

<p><a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> My fate is in your hands. Rescue me from the hand of my enemies and from those who are persecuting me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Shine your face upon your servant. Save me in your mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Do not let me be confounded, Lord, for I have called upon you. Let the impious be ashamed and be drawn down into Hell.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> May deceitful lips be silenced: those that speak iniquity against the just, in arrogance and in abusiveness.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> How great is the multitude of your sweetness, O Lord, which you keep hidden for those who fear you, which you have perfected for those who hope in you, in the sight of the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You hide them in the concealment of your face, from the disturbance of men. You protect them in your tabernacle, from the contradiction of tongues.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Blessed is the Lord. For he has shown his wonderful mercy to me, in a fortified city.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But I said in the excess of my mind: "I have been cast away from the glance of your eyes." And so, you heeded the voice of my prayer, while I was still crying out to you.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Love the Lord, all you his saints. For the Lord will require truth, and he will abundantly repay those who act with arrogance.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Act manfully, and let your heart be strengthened, all you who hope in the Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>