<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 140</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 140</h2>

<p><a id="c140_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David. O Lord, I have cried out to you, hear me. Attend to my voice, when I cry out to you.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let my prayer be guided like incense in your sight: the lifting up of my hands, like the evening sacrifice.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O Lord, station a guard over my mouth and a door enclosing my lips.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Do not turn aside my heart to words of malice, to making excuses for sins, with men who work iniquity; and I will not communicate, even with the best of them.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The just one will correct me with mercy, and he will rebuke me. But do not allow the oil of the sinner to fatten my head. For my prayer will still be toward their good will.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Their judges have been engulfed, joined to the rocks. They will hear my words, which have prevailed,</p>

<p><a id="c140_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> as when the lava of the earth has erupted above ground. Our bones have been scattered beside Hell.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For Lord, O Lord, my eyes look to you. In you, I have hoped. Do not take away my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Protect me from the snare that they have set up for me and from the scandals of those who work iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The sinners will fall into his net. I am alone, until I pass over.</p>

</body>
</html>