<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 138</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 138</h2>

<p><a id="c138_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Psalm of David. O Lord, you have examined me, and you have known me.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You have known my sitting down and my rising up again.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You have understood my thoughts from afar. My path and my fate, you have investigated.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And you have foreseen all my ways. For there is no word in my tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, O Lord, you have known all things: the newest and the very old. You have formed me, and you have placed your hand over me.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Your knowledge has become a wonder to me. It has been reinforced, and I am not able to prevail against it.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Where will I go from your Spirit? And where will I flee from your face?</p>

<p><a id="c138_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If I ascend into heaven, you are there. If I descend into Hell, you are near.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If I assume my feathers in early morning, and dwell in the utmost parts of the sea,</p>

<p><a id="c138_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> even there, your hand will lead me forth, and your right hand will hold me.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I said: Perhaps darkness will overwhelm me, and the night will be my illumination, to my delight.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But darkness will not be impenetrable to you, and night will illuminate like the day: for just as its darkness is, so also is its light.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For you have possessed my temperament. You have supported me from the womb of my mother.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will confess to you, for you have been magnified terribly. Your works are miraculous, as my soul knows exceedingly well.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My bone, which you have made in secret, has not been hidden from you, and my substance is in accord with the lower parts of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Your eyes saw my imperfection, and all this shall be written in your book. Days will be formed, and no one shall be in them.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But to me, O God, your friends have been greatly honored. Their first ruler has been exceedingly strengthened.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will number them, and they will be more numerous than the sand. I rose up, and I am still with you.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> O God, if only you would cut down sinners. You men of blood: depart from me.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For you say in thought: They will accept your cities in vain.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Have I not hated those who hated you, Lord, and wasted away because of your enemies?</p>

<p><a id="c138_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I have hated them with a perfect hatred, and they have become enemies to me.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Examine me, O God, and know my heart. Question me, and know my paths.</p>

<p><a id="c138_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And see if there might be in me the way of iniquity, and lead me in the way of eternity.</p>

</body>
</html>