<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 135</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 135</h2>

<p><a id="c135_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Alleluia. Confess to the Lord, for he is good: for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Confess to the God of gods, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Confess to the Lord of lords, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He alone performs great miracles, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He made the heavens with understanding, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He established the earth above the waters, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He made the great lights, for his mercy is eternal:</p>

<p><a id="c135_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> the sun to rule the day, for his mercy is eternal:</p>

<p><a id="c135_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> the moon and the stars to rule the night, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He struck Egypt along with their first-born, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He led Israel away from their midst, for his mercy is eternal:</p>

<p><a id="c135_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> with a powerful hand and an outstretched arm, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He divided the Red Sea into separate parts, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he led out Israel through the middle of it, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he shook off Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He led his people through the desert, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He has struck great kings, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he has slaughtered strong kings, for his mercy is eternal:</p>

<p><a id="c135_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Sihon, king of the Amorites, for his mercy is eternal:</p>

<p><a id="c135_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and Og, king of Bashan, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he granted their land as an inheritance, for his mercy is eternal:</p>

<p><a id="c135_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> as an inheritance for his servant Israel, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For he was mindful of us in our humiliation, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he redeemed us from our enemies, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He gives food to all flesh, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Confess to the God of heaven, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Confess to the Lord of lords, for his mercy is eternal.</p>

</body>
</html>