<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 117</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 117</h2>

<p><a id="c117_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Alleluia. Confess to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy is forever.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let Israel now say: For he is good, for his mercy is forever.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let the house of Aaron now say: For his mercy is forever.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let those who fear the Lord now say: For his mercy is forever.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In my tribulation, I called upon the Lord. And the Lord heeded me with generosity.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The Lord is my helper. I will not fear what man can do to me.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The Lord is my helper. And I will look down upon my enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> It is good to trust in the Lord, rather than to trust in man.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It is good to hope in the Lord, rather than to hope in leaders.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All the nations have surrounded me. And, in the name of the Lord, I have been avenged over them.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Surrounding me, they closed in on me. And, in the name of the Lord, I have been avenged over them.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They surrounded me like a swarm, and they burned like fire among the thorns. And, in the name of the Lord, I have been avenged over them.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Having been pushed, I was overturned so as to fall. But the Lord took me up.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The Lord is my strength and my praise. And he has become my salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A voice of exultation and salvation is in the tabernacles of the just.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The right hand of the Lord has wrought virtue. The right hand of the Lord has exalted me. The right hand of the Lord has wrought virtue.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will not die, but I will live. And I will declare the works of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> When chastising, the Lord chastised me. But he has not delivered me over to death.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Open the gates of justice to me. I will enter them, and I will confess to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This is the gate of the Lord. The just will enter by it.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I will confess to you because you have heard me. And you have become my salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The stone which the builders have rejected, this has become the head of the corner.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> By the Lord has this been done, and it is a wonder before our eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us exult and rejoice in it.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> O Lord, grant salvation to me. O Lord, grant good prosperity.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Blessed is he who arrives in the name of the Lord. We have blessed you from the house of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The Lord is God, and he has enlightened us. Establish a solemn day amid a dense crowd, even to the horn of the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> You are my God, and I will confess to you. You are my God, and I will exalt you. I will confess to you, for you have heeded me. And you have become my salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c117_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Confess to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy is forever.</p>

</body>
</html>