<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 107</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 107</h2>

<p><a id="c107_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Canticle Psalm, of David himself.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My heart is prepared, O God, my heart is prepared. I will sing songs, and I will sing psalms in my glory.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Rise up, my glory. Rise up, Psalter and harp. I will arise in early morning.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will confess to you, O Lord, among the peoples. And I will sing psalms to you among the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For your mercy is great, beyond the heavens, and your truth, even to the clouds.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Be exalted, O God, beyond the heavens, and your glory, beyond all the earth,</p>

<p><a id="c107_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> so that your beloved may be freed. Save with your right hand, and heed me.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> God has spoken in his holiness. I will exult, and I will divide Shechem, and I will divide by measure the steep valley of tabernacles.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine, and Ephraim is the supporter of my head. Judah is my king.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Moab is the cooking pot of my hope. I will extend my shoe in Idumea; the foreigners have become my friends.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who will lead me into the fortified city? Who will lead me, even into Idumea?</p>

<p><a id="c107_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Will not you, O God, who had rejected us? And will not you, O God, go out with our armies?</p>

<p><a id="c107_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Grant us help from tribulation, for vain is the help of man.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In God, we will act virtuously, and he will bring our enemies to nothing.</p>

</body>
</html>