<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. To the servant of the Lord, David himself.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The unjust one has said within himself that he would commit offenses. There is no fear of God before his eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For he has acted deceitfully in his sight, such that his iniquity will be found to be hatred.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The words of his mouth are iniquity and deceit. He is unwilling to understand, so that he may act well.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He has been considering iniquity on his bed. He has set himself on every way that is not good; moreover, he has not hated evil.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Lord, your mercy is in heaven, and your truth is even to the clouds.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Your justice is like the mountains of God. Your judgments are a great abyss. Men and beasts, you will save, O Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> How you have multiplied your mercy, O God! And so the sons of men will hope under the cover of your wings.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They will be inebriated with the fruitfulness of your house, and you will give them to drink from the torrent of your enjoyment.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For with you is the fountain of life; and within your light, we will see the light.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Extend your mercy before those who know you, and your justice to these, who are upright in heart.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> May arrogant feet not approach me, and may the hand of the sinner not disturb me.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In that place, those who work iniquity have fallen. They have been expelled; they were not able to stand.</p>

</body>
</html>