<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 142</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 142</h2>

<p><a id="c142_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David, when his son Absalom was pursuing him. O Lord, hear my prayer. Incline your ear to my supplication in your truth. Heed me according to your justice.</p>

<p><a id="c142_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And do not enter into judgment with your servant. For all the living will not be justified in your sight.</p>

<p><a id="c142_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the enemy has pursued my soul. He has lowered my life to the earth. He has stationed me in darkness, like the dead of ages past.</p>

<p><a id="c142_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And my spirit has been in anguish over me. My heart within me has been disturbed.</p>

<p><a id="c142_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I have called to mind the days of antiquity. I have been meditating on all your works. I have meditated on the workings of your hands.</p>

<p><a id="c142_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have extended my hands to you. My soul is like a land without water before you.</p>

<p><a id="c142_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> O Lord, heed me quickly. My spirit has grown faint. Do not turn your face away from me, lest I become like those who descend into the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c142_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Make me hear your mercy in the morning. For I have hoped in you. Make known to me the way that I should walk. For I have lifted up my soul to you.</p>

<p><a id="c142_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O Lord, rescue me from my enemies. I have fled to you.</p>

<p><a id="c142_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Teach me to do your will. For you are my God. Your good Spirit will lead me into the righteous land.</p>

<p><a id="c142_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the sake of your name, O Lord, you will revive me in your fairness. You will lead my soul out of tribulation.</p>

<p><a id="c142_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And you will scatter my enemies in your mercy. And you will destroy all those who afflict my soul. For I am your servant.</p>

</body>
</html>