<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 77</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 77</h2>

<p><a id="c77_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The understanding of Asaph. O my people, attend to my law. Incline your ears to the words of my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will open my mouth in parables. I will speak about concepts that are from the beginning.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> We have heard and known such great things, as our fathers have described to us.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> These things have not been hidden from their sons in any generation: declaring the praises of the Lord, and his virtues, and the wonders that he has done.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he has received testimony with Jacob, and he has set a law within Israel. Such great things, he has commanded our fathers, so as to make these things known to their sons,</p>

<p><a id="c77_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> so that another generation might know them, and so that the sons, who will be born and who will grow up, shall describe them to their sons.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So then, may they put their hope in God, and may they not forget the works of God, and may they seek his commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> May they not become like their fathers, a perverse and exasperating generation: a generation that does not straighten their heart and whose spirit is not trustworthy with God.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The sons of Ephraim, who bend and shoot the bow, have been turned back in the day of battle.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They have not kept the covenant of God. And they were not willing to walk in his law.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they have been forgetful of his benefits, and of his miracle, which he revealed to them.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He performed miracles in the sight of their fathers, in the land of Egypt, in the field of Tanis.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He broke the sea and he led them through. And he stationed the waters, as if in a vessel.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he led them with a cloud by day, and with illumination by fire throughout the night.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He broke through the rock in the wasteland, and he gave them to drink, as if from the great abyss.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He brought forth water from the rock, and he conducted the waters, as if they were rivers.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And yet, they continued to sin against him. In a waterless place, they provoked the Most High with resentment.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they tempted God in their hearts, by asking for food according to their desires.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they spoke badly about God. They said, "Would God be able to prepare a table in the desert?</p>

<p><a id="c77_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He struck the rock, and so waters flowed and the torrents flooded, but would even he be able to provide bread, or provide a table, for his people?"</p>

<p><a id="c77_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore, the Lord heard, and he was dismayed, and a fire was kindled within Jacob, and an anger ascended into Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For they neither put their trust in God, nor did they hope in his salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he commanded the clouds from above, and he opened the doors of heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he rained down manna upon them to eat, and he gave them the bread of heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Man ate the bread of Angels. He sent them provisions in abundance.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He transferred the south wind from heaven, and, in his virtue, he brought in the Southwest wind.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he rained down flesh upon them, as if it were dust, and feathered birds, as if they were the sand of the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they fell down in the midst of their camp, encircling their tabernacles.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they ate until they were greatly satisfied, and he brought to them according to their desires.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They were not cheated out of what they wanted. Their food was still in their mouth,</p>

<p><a id="c77_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and then the wrath of God came upon them. And he slew the fat ones among them, and he impeded the elect of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> In all these things, they continued to sin, and they were not trustworthy with his miracles.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And their days faded away into vanity, and their years with haste.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> When he slew them, then they sought him. And they returned, and they drew near to him in the early morning.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they were mindful that God is their helper and that the Most High God is their redeemer.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And they chose him with their mouth, and then they lied to him with their tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For their heart was not upright with him, nor have they been living faithfully in his covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Yet he is merciful, and he will pardon their sins. And he will not destroy them. And he has abundantly turned aside his own wrath. And he did not enflame his wrath entirely.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And he remembered that they are flesh: with a spirit that goes forth and does not return.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> How often did they provoke him in the desert and stir him to wrath in a waterless place?</p>

<p><a id="c77_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And they turned back and tempted God, and they exasperated the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> They did not remember his hand, in the day that he redeemed them from the hand of the one troubling them.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Thus, he positioned his signs in Egypt and his wonders in the field of Tanis.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he turned their rivers into blood, along with their rain showers, so that they could not drink.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> He sent among them the common fly, and it devoured them, and the frog, and it scattered them.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And he gave up their fruits to mold and their labors to the locust.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And he slew their vineyards with hail and their mulberry trees with severe frost.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And he delivered their cattle to the hail and their possessions to fire.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And he sent the wrath of his indignation among them: indignation and wrath and tribulation, sent forth by evil angels.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> He made way for the path of his anger. He did not spare their souls from death. And he enclosed their beasts of burden in death.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And he struck all the first-born in the land of Egypt: the first-fruits of all their labor in the tabernacles of Ham.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And he took away his own people like sheep, and he led them through the wilderness like a flock.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And he led them out in hope, and they did not fear. And the sea covered their enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And he led them to the mountain of his sanctification: the mountain that his right hand had acquired. And he cast out the Gentiles before their face. And he divided their land by lot to them, with a line of distribution.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And he caused the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tabernacles.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Yet they tempted and aggravated God Most High, and they did not keep his testaments.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And they turned themselves aside, and they did not serve the covenant. In the same manner as their fathers, they were turned backwards, like a crooked bow.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> They impelled him to anger on their hills, and they provoked him to rivalry with their graven images.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> God listened, and he spurned them, and he reduced Israel greatly, almost to nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> And he rejected the tabernacle of Shiloh, his tabernacle where he had dwelt among men.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And he delivered their virtue into captivity, and their beauty into the hands of the enemy.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> And he enclosed his people with the sword, and he spurned his inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> Fire consumed their young men, and their virgins were not lamented.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Their priests fell by the sword, and their widows did not weep.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> And the Lord was awaked, as if out of sleep, and like a powerful man impaired by wine.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> And he struck his enemies on the back. He gave them over to everlasting disgrace.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> And he rejected the tabernacle of Joseph, and he did not choose the tribe of Ephraim.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> But he chose the tribe of Judah: mount Zion, which he loved.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> And he built up his sanctuary, like a single-horned beast, in the land that he founded for all ages.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> And he chose his servant David, and he took him from the flocks of the sheep: he received him from following the ewes with their young,</p>

<p><a id="c77_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> in order to pasture Jacob his servant and Israel his inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> And he fed them with the innocence of his heart. And he led them with the understanding of his hands.</p>

</body>
</html>