<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 85</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 85</h2>

<p><a id="c85_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Prayer of David himself. Incline your ear, O Lord, and hear me. For I am needy and poor.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Preserve my soul, for I am holy. My God, bring salvation to your servant who hopes in you.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O Lord, be merciful to me, for I have cried out to you all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Give joy to the soul of your servant, for I have lifted up my soul to you, Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For you are sweet and mild, Lord, and plentiful in mercy to all who call upon you.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Pay attention, Lord, to my prayer, and attend to the voice of my supplication.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In the day of my tribulation, I cried out to you, because you heeded me.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> There is no one like you among the gods, O Lord, and there is no one like you in your works.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All the nations, which you have made, will draw near and adore in your presence, O Lord. And they will glorify your name.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For you are great, and you perform wonders. You alone are God.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Lead me, O Lord, in your way, and I will walk in your truth. May my heart rejoice, so that it will fear your name.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will confess to you, O Lord my God, with my whole heart. And I will glorify your name in eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For your mercy toward me is great, and you have rescued my soul from the lower part of Hell.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> O God, the iniquitous have risen up against me, and the synagogue of the powerful have sought my soul, and they have not placed you in their sight.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And you, Lord God, are compassionate and merciful, being patient and full of mercy and truthful.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Look down upon me and have mercy on me. Grant your authority to your servant, and bring salvation to the son of your handmaid.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Make me a sign of what is good, so that those who hate me, may look and be confounded. For you, O Lord, have helped me and consoled me.</p>

</body>
</html>