<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David, before he was sealed. The Lord is my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear? The Lord is the protector of my life, of whom shall I be afraid?</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Meanwhile, the guilty draw near to me, so as to eat my flesh. Those who trouble me, my enemies, have themselves been weakened and have fallen.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If entrenched armies were to stand together against me, my heart would not fear. If a battle were to rise up against me, I would have hope in this.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> One thing I have asked of the Lord, this I will seek: that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, so that I may behold the delight of the Lord, and may visit his temple.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For he has hidden me in his tabernacle. In the day of evils, he has protected me in the hidden place of his tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He has exalted me upon the rock, and now he has exalted my head above my enemies. I have circled around and offered a sacrifice of loud exclamation in his tabernacle. I will sing, and I will compose a psalm, to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hear my voice, O Lord, with which I have cried out to you. Have mercy on me, and hear me.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> My heart has spoken to you; my face has sought you. I yearn for your face, O Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Do not turn your face away from me. In your wrath, do not turn aside from your servant. Be my helper. Do not abandon me, and do not despise me, O God, my Saviour.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For my father and my mother have left me behind, but the Lord has taken me up.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> O Lord, establish a law for me in your way, and direct me in the right path, because of my enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Do not surrender me to the souls of those who trouble me. For unjust witnesses have risen up against me, and iniquity has lied to itself.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I believe that I shall see the good things of the Lord in the land of the living.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wait for the Lord, act manfully; and let your heart be strengthened, and remain with the Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>