<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 72</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 72</h2>

<p><a id="c72_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of Asaph. How good is God to Israel, to those who are upright in heart.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But my feet were nearly moved; my steps had nearly slipped.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I was zealous over the iniquitous, seeing the peacefulness of sinners.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For they have no respect for their death, nor do they have support in their wounds.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They are not with the hardships of men, nor will they be scourged with men.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, arrogance has held on to them. They have been covered with their iniquity and impiety.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Their iniquity has proceeded, as if from fat. They have parted from the affection of the heart.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They have thought and spoken wickedness. They have spoken iniquity in high places.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They have set their mouth against heaven, and their tongue has traversed the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, my people will be converted here, and fullness of days will be found in them.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they said, "How would God know?" and, "Isn't there knowledge in high places?"</p>

<p><a id="c72_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, these are sinners, and, abounding in this age, they have obtained riches.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I said: So then, it is without purpose that I have justified my heart and washed my hands among the innocent.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I have been scourged all day long, and I have received my chastisement in the mornings.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If I were to say that I would explain this: Behold, I would condemn this nation of your sons.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I considered, so that I might know this. It is a hardship before me,</p>

<p><a id="c72_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> until I may enter into the Sanctuary of God, and understand it to its last part.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> So, because of deceitfulness, truly, you have placed it before them. While they were being lifted up, you were casting them down.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How have they been brought to desolation? They have suddenly failed. They have perished because of their iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> As a dream is to those who awaken, O Lord, so will you reduce their image to nothing in your city.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For my heart has been inflamed, and my temperament has been changed.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And so, I have been reduced to nothing, and I did not know it.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I have become like a beast of burden to you, and I am always with you.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> You have held my right hand. And in your will, you have conducted me, and with your glory, you have taken me up.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For what is there for me in heaven? And what do I wish for on earth before you?</p>

<p><a id="c72_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> My body has failed, and my heart: O God of my heart, and God my portion, into eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For behold, those who put themselves far from you will perish. You have perished all those who fornicate away from you.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But it is good for me to adhere to God, to put my hope in the Lord God, so that I may announce all your prophecies, at the gates of the daughter of Zion.</p>

</body>
</html>