<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 78</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 78</h2>

<p><a id="c78_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of Asaph. O God, the Gentiles have entered into your inheritance; they have polluted your holy temple. They have set Jerusalem as a place to tend fruit trees.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They have placed the dead bodies of your servants as food for the birds of the sky, the flesh of your saints for the beasts of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They have poured out their blood like water all around Jerusalem, and there was no one who would bury them.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> We have become a disgrace to our neighbors, an object of ridicule and mockery to those who are around us.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> How long, O Lord? Will you be angry until the end? Will your zeal be kindled like a fire?</p>

<p><a id="c78_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Pour out your wrath among the Gentiles, who have not known you, and upon the kingdoms that have not invoked your name.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For they have devoured Jacob, and they have desolated his place.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Do not remember our iniquities of the past. May your mercies quickly intercept us, for we have become exceedingly poor.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Help us, O God, our Savior. And free us, Lord, for the glory of your name. And forgive us our sins for the sake of your name.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let them not say among the Gentiles, "Where is their God?" And may your name become known among the nations before our eyes. For the retribution of your servants' blood, which has been poured out:</p>

<p><a id="c78_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> may the groans of the shackled enter before you. According to the greatness of your arm, take possession of the sons of those who have been killed.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And repay our neighbors sevenfold within their sinews. It is the reproach of the same ones who brought reproach against you, O Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But we are your people and the sheep of your pasture: we will give thanks to you in all ages. From generation to generation, we will announce your praise.</p>

</body>
</html>