<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 93</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 93</h2>

<p><a id="c93_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David himself. The Fourth Sabbath. The Lord is the God of retribution. The God of retribution acts in order to deliver.</p>

<p><a id="c93_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Lift yourself up, for you judge the earth. Repay the arrogant with retribution.</p>

<p><a id="c93_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> How long will sinners, O Lord, how long will sinners glory?</p>

<p><a id="c93_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> How long will they utter and speak iniquity? How long will all who work injustice speak out?</p>

<p><a id="c93_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They have humiliated your people, O Lord, and they have harassed your inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c93_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They have executed the widow and the new arrival, and they have slaughtered the orphan.</p>

<p><a id="c93_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they have said, "The Lord will not see, nor will the God of Jacob understand."</p>

<p><a id="c93_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Understand, you senseless ones among the people. And be wise at last, you foolish ones.</p>

<p><a id="c93_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He who formed the ear, will he not hear? And he who forged the eye, does he not look closely?</p>

<p><a id="c93_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He who chastises nations, he who teaches man knowledge, will he not rebuke?</p>

<p><a id="c93_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The Lord knows the thoughts of men: that these are in vain.</p>

<p><a id="c93_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed is the man whom you will instruct, O Lord. And you will teach him from your law.</p>

<p><a id="c93_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So may you soothe him from the evil days, until a pit may be dug for sinners.</p>

<p><a id="c93_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For the Lord will not drive away his people, and he will not abandon his inheritance,</p>

<p><a id="c93_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> even until the time when justice is being converted into judgment, and when those who are close to justice are all those who are upright of heart.</p>

<p><a id="c93_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Who will rise up with me against the malignant? Or who will stand with me against the workers of iniquity?</p>

<p><a id="c93_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Except that the Lord assisted me, my soul almost would have dwelt in Hell.</p>

<p><a id="c93_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If ever I said, "My foot is slipping," then your mercy, O Lord, assisted me.</p>

<p><a id="c93_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> According to the multitude of my sorrows in my heart, your consolations have given joy to my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c93_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Does the seat of iniquity adhere to you, you who contrive hardship within a commandment?</p>

<p><a id="c93_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They will hunt down the soul of the just, and they will condemn innocent blood.</p>

<p><a id="c93_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the Lord has been made into a refuge for me, and my God into the assistance of my hope.</p>

<p><a id="c93_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he will repay them their iniquity, and he will destroy them in their malice. The Lord our God will utterly destroy them.</p>

</body>
</html>