<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 62</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 62</h2>

<p><a id="c62_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David, when he was in the desert of Idumea.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O God, my God: to you, I keep vigil until first light. For you, my soul has thirsted, to you my body, in so many ways.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> By a deserted land, both inaccessible and waterless, so I have appeared in the sanctuary before you, in order to behold your virtue and your glory.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For your mercy is better than life itself. It is you my lips will praise.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So will I bless you in my life, and I will lift up my hands in your name.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let my soul be filled, as if with marrow and fatness; and my mouth will give praise with exultant lips.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When I have remembered you on my bed in the morning, I will meditate on you.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For you have been my helper. And I will exult under the cover of your wings.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My soul has clung close to you. Your right hand has supported me.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Truly, these ones have sought my soul in vain. They will enter into the lower parts of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They will be delivered into the hand of the sword. They will be the portions of foxes.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Truly, the king will rejoice in God: all those who swear by him will be praised, because the mouth of those who speak iniquity has been blocked.</p>

</body>
</html>