<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 65</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 65</h2>

<p><a id="c65_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Canticle Psalm of the Resurrection. Shout joyfully to God, all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Proclaim a psalm to his name. Give glory to his praise.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Exclaim to God, "How terrible are your works, O Lord!" According to the fullness of your virtue, your enemies will speak lies about you.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let all the earth adore you and sing psalms to you. May it sing a psalm to your name.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Draw near and see the works of God, who is terrible in his counsels over the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He converts the sea into dry land. They will cross the river on foot. There, we will rejoice in him.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He rules by his virtue for eternity. His eyes gaze upon the nations. May those who exasperate him, not be exalted in themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Bless our God, you Gentiles, and make the voice of his praise be heard.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He has set my soul toward life, and he has granted that my feet may not be shaken.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For you, O God, have tested us. You have examined us by fire, just as silver is examined.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You have led us into a snare. You have placed tribulations on our back.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You have set men over our heads. We have crossed through fire and water. And you have led us out to refreshment.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I will enter your house with holocausts. I will repay my vows to you,</p>

<p><a id="c65_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> which my lips discerned and my mouth spoke, in my tribulation.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will offer to you holocausts full of marrow, with the burnt offerings of rams. I will offer to you bulls as well as goats.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Draw near and listen, all you who fear God, and I will describe to you how much he has done for my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I cried out to him with my mouth, and I extolled him under my breath.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If I have seen iniquity in my heart, the Lord would not heed me.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And yet, God has heeded me and he has attended to the voice of my supplication.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Blessed is God, who has not removed my prayer, nor his mercy, from me.</p>

</body>
</html>