<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 104</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 104</h2>

<p><a id="c104_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Alleluia. Confess to the Lord, and invoke his name. Announce his works among the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sing to him, and sing psalms to him. Describe all his wonders.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Be praised in his holy name. Let the heart of those who seek the Lord rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Seek the Lord, and be confirmed. Seek his face always.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Remember his miracles, which he has done, his portents and the judgments of his mouth:</p>

<p><a id="c104_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> you offspring of Abraham his servant, you sons of Jacob his elect.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He is the Lord our God. His judgments are throughout the entire earth.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He has remembered his covenant for all ages: the word that he entrusted to a thousand generations,</p>

<p><a id="c104_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> which he assigned to Abraham, and his oath to Isaac.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he stationed the same for Jacob with a precept, and for Israel with an eternal testament,</p>

<p><a id="c104_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> saying: To you, I will give the land of Canaan, the allotment of your inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Though they may have been but a small number, very few and foreigners there,</p>

<p><a id="c104_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and though they passed from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another people,</p>

<p><a id="c104_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> he allowed no man to harm them, and he reproved kings on their behalf.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Do not be willing to touch my Christ, and do not be willing to malign my prophets.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he called a famine upon the land, and he crushed every foundation of the bread.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He sent a man before them: Joseph, who had been sold as a slave.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They humbled his feet in shackles; the iron pierced his soul,</p>

<p><a id="c104_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> until his word arrived. The eloquence of the Lord inflamed him.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The king sent and released him; he was the ruler of the people, and he dismissed him.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He established him as master of his house and ruler of all his possessions,</p>

<p><a id="c104_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> so that he might instruct his princes as himself, and teach his elders prudence.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Israel entered into Egypt, and Jacob became a sojourner in the land of Ham.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he helped his people greatly, and he strengthened them over their enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He turned their heart to hate his people, and to deal deceitfully with his servants.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He sent Moses, his servant, and Aaron, the one whom he chose.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He placed with them signs of his word, and portents in the land of Ham.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He sent darkness and made it conceal, and he did not afflict them with his speech.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He turned their waters into blood, and he slaughtered their fish.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Their land brought forth frogs, even in the inner chambers of their kings.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He spoke, and there came forth common flies and gnats, in every region.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He gave them a shower of hail and a burning fire, in the same land.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he struck their vineyards and their fig trees, and he crushed the trees of their region.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He spoke, and the locust came forth, and the caterpillar, of which there was no number.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And it devoured all the grass in their land, and it consumed all the fruit of their land.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he struck all the first-born in their land, the first-fruits of all their labor.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And he led them out with silver and gold, and there was not an infirm one among their tribes.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Egypt was joyful at their departure, for the fear of them lay heavy upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> He spread a cloud for their protection, and a fire, to give them light through the night.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> They petitioned, and the quail came; and he satisfied them with the bread of heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> He ruptured the rock and the waters flowed: rivers gushed in the dry land.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> For he had called to mind his holy word, which he kept near to his servant Abraham.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he led forth his people in exultation, and his elect in rejoicing.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he gave them the regions of the Gentiles, and they possessed the labors of the peoples,</p>

<p><a id="c104_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> so that they might observe his justifications, and inquire about his law.</p>

</body>
</html>