<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 95</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 95</h2>

<p><a id="c95_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Canticle of David himself, when the house was built after the captivity. Sing to the Lord a new song. Sing to the Lord, all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c95_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sing to the Lord and bless his name. Announce his salvation from day to day.</p>

<p><a id="c95_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Announce his glory among the Gentiles, his miracles among all peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c95_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is terrible, beyond all gods.</p>

<p><a id="c95_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For all the gods of the Gentiles are demons, but the Lord made the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c95_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Confession and beauty are in his sight. Sanctity and magnificence are in his sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c95_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Bring to the Lord, you natives of the nations, bring to the Lord glory and honor.</p>

<p><a id="c95_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Bring to the Lord glory for his name. Lift up sacrifices, and enter into his courts.</p>

<p><a id="c95_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Adore the Lord in his holy court. Let the entire earth be shaken before his face.</p>

<p><a id="c95_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Say among the Gentiles: The Lord has reigned. For he has even corrected the whole world, which will not be shaken. He will judge the peoples with fairness.</p>

<p><a id="c95_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth exult; let the sea and all its fullness be moved.</p>

<p><a id="c95_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The fields and all the things that are in them will be glad. Then all the trees of the forest will rejoice</p>

<p><a id="c95_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> before the face of the Lord: for he arrives. For he arrives to judge the earth. He will judge the whole world with fairness and the peoples with his truth.</p>

</body>
</html>