<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 73</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 73</h2>

<p><a id="c73_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The understanding of Asaph. O God, why have you rejected us to the end. Why has your fury become enraged over the sheep of your pasture?</p>

<p><a id="c73_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Be mindful of your congregation, which you have possessed from the beginning. You redeemed the scepter of your inheritance, mount Zion, in which you have dwelt.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Lift up your hands against their arrogance in the end. How great the malice of the enemy has been in the sanctuary!</p>

<p><a id="c73_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And those who hate you have been glorified, in the midst of your solemnity. They have set up their own signs as a proof,</p>

<p><a id="c73_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> as if it had been issued from on high; yet they did not understand. As in a forest of chopped wood,</p>

<p><a id="c73_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> they have cut down the entrances themselves. With axe and hatchet, they have brought it down.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They have set fire to your Sanctuary. They have polluted the tabernacle of your name on earth.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They have said in their heart, the whole group of them together: "Let us cause all the feast days of God to cease from the land.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> We have not seen our proof; there is now no prophet. And he will no longer know us."</p>

<p><a id="c73_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> How long, O God, will the enemy place blame? Is the adversary to provoke your name until the end?</p>

<p><a id="c73_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Why do you turn your hand away, even your right hand, from the midst of your sinews, until the end?</p>

<p><a id="c73_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But God is our king before all ages. He has wrought salvation in the midst of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In your virtue, you confirmed the sea. You crushed the heads of the serpents in the waters.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You have broken the heads of the serpent. You have given him as food for the people of the Ethiopians.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You have disrupted the fountains and the torrents. You have dried up the rivers of Ethan.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yours is the day, and yours is the night. You have made the morning light and the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> You have made all the limits of the earth. The summer and the spring were formed by you.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Be mindful of this: the enemy placed blame against the Lord, and a foolish people has incited against your name.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Do not hand over to beasts the souls that confess to you; and do not forget the souls of your poor until the end.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Consider your covenant. For those who have been darkened upon the earth have been filled by the iniquity of the houses.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Do not allow the humble to be turned away in confusion. The poor and the needy will praise your name.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Rise up, O God, judge your own case. Call to mind the accusations against you, which are made by the foolish all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Do not forget the voices of your adversaries. The arrogance of those who hate you rises up continually.</p>

</body>
</html>