<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 80</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 80</h2>

<p><a id="c80_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. For the wine and oil presses. A Psalm of Asaph himself.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Exult before God our helper. Sing joyfully to the God of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Take up a psalm, and bring forth the timbrel: a pleasing Psalter with stringed instruments.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Sound the trumpet at the new moon, on the noteworthy day of your solemnity,</p>

<p><a id="c80_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> for it is a precept in Israel and a judgment for the God of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He set it as a testimony with Joseph, when he went out of the land of Egypt. He heard a tongue that he did not know.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He turned the burdens away from his back. His hands had been a slave to baskets.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You called upon me in tribulation, and I freed you. I heard you within the hidden tempest. I tested you with waters of contradiction.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My people, listen and I will call you to testify. If, O Israel, you will pay heed to me,</p>

<p><a id="c80_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> then there will be no new god among you, nor will you adore a foreign god.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For I am the Lord your God, who led you out of the land of Egypt. Widen your mouth, and I will fill it.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But my people did not hear my voice, and Israel was not attentive to me.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And so, I sent them away, according to the desires of their heart. They will go forth according to their own inventions.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If my people had heard me, if Israel had walked in my ways,</p>

<p><a id="c80_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I would have humbled their enemies, as if it were nothing, and I would have sent my hand upon those who troubled them.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The enemies of the Lord have lied to him, and their time will come, in every age.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he fed them from the fat of the grain, and he saturated them with honey from the rock.</p>

</body>
</html>