<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David himself. Do not choose to imitate the malicious; neither should you envy those who work iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For they will quickly wither away like dry grass, and in like manner to kitchen herbs, they will soon droop.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Hope in the Lord and do good, and dwell in the land, and so you shall be pastured with its riches.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Delight in the Lord, and he will grant to you the petitions of your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Reveal your way to the Lord, and hope in him, and he will accomplish it.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he will bring forth your justice like the light, and your judgment like the midday.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Be subject to the Lord and pray to him. Do not choose to compete with him who prospers in his way, with the man who does injustice.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Cease from wrath and leave behind rage. Do not choose to imitate the malicious.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For those who are malicious will be exterminated. But those who remain with the Lord, these will inherit the land.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet still a little while, and the sinner will not be. And you will search his place and find nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the meek shall inherit the earth, and they will delight in the multitude of peace.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The sinner will observe the just, and he will gnash his teeth over him.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But the Lord will laugh at him: for he knows in advance that his day will come.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The sinners have drawn the sword, they have bent their bow, so as to cast down the poor and the needy, so as to massacre the upright of heart.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let their sword enter into their own hearts, and let their bow be broken.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A little is better to the just than the many riches of sinners.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the arms of sinners will be crushed, but the Lord confirms the just.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The Lord knows the days of the immaculate, and their inheritance will be in eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They will not be confounded in an evil time; and in days of famine, they will be satisfied:</p>

<p><a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for sinners will perish. Truly, the adversaries of the Lord, soon after they have been honored and exalted, will fade away, in the same way that smoke fades away.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The sinner will lend and not release, but the just one shows compassion and donates.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For those who bless him will inherit the earth, but those who curse him will perish.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The steps of a man will be directed by the Lord, and he will choose his way.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When he falls, he will not be harmed, because the Lord places his hand under him.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I have been young, and now I am old; and I have not seen the just forsaken, nor his offspring seeking bread.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He shows compassion and lends, all day long, and his offspring will be in blessing.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Turn away from evil and do good, and dwell forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For the Lord loves judgment, and he will not abandon his saints. They will be kept safe in eternity. The unjust will be punished, and the offspring of the impious will perish.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But the just will inherit the earth, and they will dwell upon it forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The mouth of the just one will express wisdom, and his tongue will speak judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The law of his God is in his heart, and his steps shall not be supplanted.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The sinner considers the just one and seeks to put him to death.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But the Lord will not abandon him into his hands, nor condemn him, when he will be judged.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Wait for the Lord, and keep to his way. And he will exalt you, so as to inherit the land that you may seize. When the sinners will have passed away, then you shall see.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> I have seen the impious over-exalted, and lifted up like the cedars of Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And I passed by, and behold, he was not. And I sought him, and his place was not found.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Keep to innocence, and gaze upon fairness: because there are allotments for the peaceful man.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But the unjust will be destroyed together: the allotments of the impious will pass away.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But the salvation of the just is from the Lord, and he is their protector in time of tribulation.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the Lord will help them and free them. And he will rescue them from sinners and save them, because they have hoped in him.</p>

</body>
</html>