<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Canticle Psalm. In dedication to the house of David.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will extol you, Lord, for you have sustained me, and you have not allowed my enemies to delight over me.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O Lord my God, I have cried out to you, and you have healed me.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Lord, you led my soul away from Hell. You have saved me from those who descend into the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Sing a psalm to the Lord, you his saints, and confess with remembrance of his holiness.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For wrath is in his indignation, and life is in his will. Toward evening, weeping will linger, and toward morning, gladness.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But I have said in my abundance: "I will never be disturbed."</p>

<p><a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O Lord, in your will, you made virtue preferable to beauty for me. You turned your face away from me, and I became disturbed.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> To you, Lord, I will cry out. And I will make supplication to my God.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> What use would there be in my blood, if I descend into corruption? Will dust confess to you or announce your truth?</p>

<p><a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The Lord has heard, and he has been merciful to me. The Lord has become my helper.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You have turned my mourning into gladness for me. You have cut off my sackcloth, and you have surrounded me with joy.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So then, may my glory sing to you, and may I not regret it. O Lord, my God, I will confess to you for eternity.</p>

</body>
</html>