<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Prayer of David. Lord, listen to my justice, attend to my supplication. Pay attention to my prayer, which is not from deceitful lips.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let my judgment proceed from your presence. Let your eyes behold fairness.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You have tested my heart and visited it by night. You have examined me by fire, and iniquity has not been found in me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore, may my mouth not speak the works of men. I have kept to difficult ways because of the words of your lips.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Perfect my steps in your paths, so that my footsteps may not be disturbed.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have cried out because you, O God, have listened to me. Incline your ear to me and heed my words.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Make your mercies wonderful, for you save those who hope in you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> From those who resist your right hand, preserve me like the pupil of your eye. Protect me under the shadow of your wings,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> from the face of the impious who have afflicted me. My enemies have surrounded my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They have concealed their fatness; their mouth has been speaking arrogantly.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They have cast me out, and now they have surrounded me. They have cast their eyes down to the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They have taken me, like a lion ready for the prey, and like a young lion dwelling in hiding.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Rise up, O Lord, arrive before him and displace him. Deliver my soul from the impious one: your spear from the enemies of your hand.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Lord, divide them from the few of the earth in their life. Their gut has been filled from your hidden stores. They have been filled with sons, and they have bequeathed to their little ones the remainder.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But as for me, I will appear before your sight in justice. I will be satisfied when your glory appears.</p>

</body>
</html>