<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 139</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 139</h2>

<p><a id="c139_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Psalm of David.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Rescue me, O Lord, from the evil man. Rescue me from the iniquitous leader.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Those who have devised iniquities in their hearts: all day long they constructed conflicts.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent. The venom of asps is under their lips.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Preserve me, O Lord, from the hand of the sinner, and rescue me from men of iniquity. They have decided to supplant my steps.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The arrogant have hidden a snare for me. And they have stretched out cords for a snare. They have placed a stumbling block for me near the road.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I said to the Lord: You are my God. O Lord, heed the voice of my supplication.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lord, O Lord, the strength of my salvation: you have overshadowed my head in the day of war.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O Lord, do not hand me over to the sinner by my desire. They have plotted against me. Do not abandon me, lest they should triumph.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The head of those who encompass me, the labor of their lips, will overwhelm them.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Burning coals will fall upon them. You will cast them down into the fire, into miseries that they will not be able to withstand.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A talkative man will not be guided aright upon the earth. Evils will drag the unjust man unto utter ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I know that the Lord will accomplish justice for the needy and vindication for the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> So then, truly, the just will confess your name, and the upright will dwell with your countenance.</p>

</body>
</html>