<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David, which he sang to the Lord because of the words of Cush, the son of Jemini.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O Lord, my God, in you I have hoped. Save me from all those who persecute me, and free me:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> lest at any time, like a lion, he might seize my soul, while there is no one to redeem me, nor any who can save.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> O Lord, my God, if there is iniquity in my hands, if I have done this:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> if I have repaid those who rendered evils to me, may I deservedly fall away empty before my enemies:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> let the enemy pursue my soul, and take hold of it, and trample my life into the earth, and drag down my glory into the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Rise up, Lord, in your anger. And be exalted to the borders of my enemies. And rise up, O Lord my God, according to the precept that you commanded,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and a congregation of people will surround you. And, because of this, return on high.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The Lord judges the people. Judge me, O Lord, according to my justice and according to my innocence within me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The wickedness of sinners will be consumed, and you will direct the just: the examiner of hearts and temperaments is God.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Just is my help from the Lord, who saves the upright of heart.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> God is a just judge, strong and patient. How could he be angry throughout every day?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Unless you will be converted, he will brandish his sword. He has extended his bow and made it ready.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And with it, he has prepared instruments of death. He has produced his arrows for those on fire.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold him who has given birth to injustice: he has conceived sorrow and has begotten iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He has opened a pit and enlarged it. And he has fallen into the hole that he made.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His sorrow will be turned upon his own head, and his iniquity will descend upon his highest point.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will confess to the Lord according to his justice, and I will sing a psalm to the name of the Lord Most High.</p>

</body>
</html>