<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 103</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 103</h2>

<p><a id="c103_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To David himself. Bless the Lord, O my soul. O Lord my God, you are exceedingly great. You have clothed yourself with confession and beauty;</p>

<p><a id="c103_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> you are dressed with light like a garment, while you stretch out heaven like a tent.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You cover its heights with water. You set the clouds as your stairs. You walk upon the wings of the winds.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You make your Angels a breath of life, and your ministers a burning fire.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You founded the earth upon its stable base. It will not be bent from age to age.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The abyss, like a garment, is its clothing. The waters will remain standing above the mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> At your rebuke, they will flee. At the voice of your thunder, they will dread.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The mountains ascend, and the plains descend, to the place which you have founded for them.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You have set a limit that they will not cross. And they will not return to cover the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You spring forth fountains in steep valleys. The waters will cross through the midst of the mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> All the wild beasts of the field will drink. The wild donkeys will anticipate in their thirst.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Above them, the flying things of the air will dwell. From the midst of the rocks, they will utter voices.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You irrigate the mountains from your heights. The earth will be satiated from the fruit of your works,</p>

<p><a id="c103_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> producing grass for cattle and herbs for the service of men. So may you draw bread from the earth,</p>

<p><a id="c103_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and wine, in order to cheer the heart of man. Then he may gladden his face with oil, and bread will confirm the heart of man.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The trees of the field will be saturated, along with the cedars of Lebanon, which he planted.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There, the sparrows will make their nests. The leader of them is the house of the heron.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The heights of the hills are for the deer; the rock is a refuge for the hedgehog.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He has made the moon for seasons; the sun knows its setting.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You appointed darkness, and it has become night; all the beasts of the forest will cross through it.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The young lions will roar, while searching for and seizing their meal from God.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The sun arose, and they were gathered together; and in their dens, they will lie down together.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Man will go forth to his work and to his activities, until the evening.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> How great are your works, O Lord! You have made all things in wisdom. The earth has been filled with your possessions.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> This sea is great and its hands are spacious. There are creeping things without number: the small animals with the great.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> There, the ships will pass by this sea-serpent that you have formed to mock them.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> All these expect you to give them food in due time.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> What you give to them, they will gather. When you open your hand, they will all be filled with goodness.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But if you turn your face away, they will be disturbed. You will take away their breath, and they will fail, and they will return to their dust.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> You will send forth your Spirit, and they will be created. And you will renew the face of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> May the glory of the Lord be for all ages. The Lord will rejoice in his works.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He considers the earth, and he makes it tremble. He touches the mountains, and they smoke.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> I will sing to the Lord with my life. I will sing psalms to my God, as long as I am.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> May my speech be pleasing to him. Truly, I will take delight in the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Let sinners fade away from the earth, along with the unjust, so that they may not be. Bless the Lord, O my soul.</p>

</body>
</html>