<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 134</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 134</h2>

<p><a id="c134_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Alleluia. Praise the name of the Lord. You servants, praise the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You who stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God:</p>

<p><a id="c134_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> praise the Lord, for the Lord is good. Sing psalms to his name, for it is sweet.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the Lord has chosen Jacob for himself, Israel for his own possession.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For I have known that the Lord is great, and our God is before all gods.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> All things whatsoever that he willed, the Lord did: in heaven, on earth, in the sea, and in all the deep places.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He leads clouds from the ends of the earth. He has created lightnings in the rain. He has produced winds from his storehouses.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He struck the first-born of Egypt, from man even to cattle.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He sent signs and wonders into your midst, O Egypt: upon Pharaoh and upon all his servants.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He has struck many nations, and he has slaughtered strong kings:</p>

<p><a id="c134_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Sihon, king of the Amorites, and Og, king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he gave their land as an inheritance, as an inheritance for his people Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Your name, O Lord, is in eternity. Your memorial, O Lord, is from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For the Lord will judge his people, and he will be petitioned by his servants.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The idols of the Gentiles are silver and gold, the works of the hands of men.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They have a mouth, and do not speak. They have eyes, and do not see.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They have ears, and do not hear. For neither is there any breath in their mouths.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let those who make them become like them, along with all who trust in them.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Bless the Lord, O house of Israel. Bless the Lord, O house of Aaron.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Bless the Lord, O house of Levi. You who fear the Lord, bless the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c134_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The Lord is blessed from Zion, by those who dwell in Jerusalem.</p>

</body>
</html>