<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 82</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 82</h2>

<p><a id="c82_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Canticle Psalm of Asaph.</p>

<p><a id="c82_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O God, who will ever be like you? Do not be silent, and do not be unmoved, O God.</p>

<p><a id="c82_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For behold, your enemies have sounded off, and those who hate you have carried out a head.</p>

<p><a id="c82_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They have acted with malice in counsel over your people, and they have plotted against your holy ones.</p>

<p><a id="c82_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They have said, "Come, let us scatter them from the nations and not allow the name of Israel to be remembered any longer."</p>

<p><a id="c82_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For they plotted unanimously. Joined together against you, they ordained a covenant:</p>

<p><a id="c82_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> the tabernacle of Edomites and Ishmaelites, and Moab and the Hagarites,</p>

<p><a id="c82_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek, the foreigners among the inhabitants of Tyre.</p>

<p><a id="c82_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For even Assur comes with them. They have become the helpers of the sons of Lot.</p>

<p><a id="c82_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Do to them as you did to Midian and Sisera, just as to Jabin at the torrent of Kishon.</p>

<p><a id="c82_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They perished at Endor, and they became like the dung of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c82_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Set their leaders to be like Oreb and Zeeb, and Zebah and Zalmunna: all their leaders</p>

<p><a id="c82_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> who said, "Let us possess the Sanctuary of God for an inheritance."</p>

<p><a id="c82_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My God, set them like a wheel, and like stubble before the face of the wind.</p>

<p><a id="c82_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Set them like a fire burning up the forest, and like a flame burning up the mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c82_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So will you pursue them in your tempest, and disturb them in your wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c82_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Fill their faces with shame, and they will seek your name, O Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c82_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let them be ashamed and troubled, from age to age, and let them be confounded and perish.</p>

<p><a id="c82_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And let them know that the Lord is your name. You alone are the Most High in all the earth.</p>

</body>
</html>