<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 96</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 96</h2>

<p><a id="c96_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> This is to David, when his land was restored to him. The Lord has reigned, let the earth exult. Let the many islands rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Clouds and mist are all around him. Justice and judgment are corrections from his throne.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A fire will precede him, and it will enflame his enemies all around.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> His lightnings have enlightened the whole world. The earth saw, and it was shaken.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The mountains flowed like wax before the face of the Lord, before the face of the Lord of all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The heavens announced his justice, and all peoples saw his glory.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> May all those who adore graven images be confounded, along with those who glory in their false images. All you his Angels: Adore him.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Zion heard, and was glad. And the daughters of Judah exulted because of your judgments, O Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For you are the Most High Lord over all the earth. You are greatly exalted above all gods.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You who love the Lord: hate evil. The Lord watches over the souls of his holy ones. He will free them from the hand of the sinner.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The light has risen for the just, and joy for the upright of heart.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Rejoice in the Lord, you just ones, and confess to the memory of his sanctuary.</p>

</body>
</html>