<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 44</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 44</h2>

<p><a id="c44_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. For those who will be changed. To the sons of Korah, toward understanding. A Canticle for the Beloved.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My heart has uttered a good word. I speak of my works to the king. My tongue is like the pen of a scribe who writes quickly.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You are a brilliant form before the sons of men. Grace has been poured freely into your lips. Because of this, God has blessed you in eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Fasten your sword to your thigh, O most powerful one.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> With your splendor and your excellence extended, proceed prosperously, and reign for the sake of truth and meekness and justice, and so will your right hand lead you wondrously.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Your arrows are sharp; the people will fall under you, with the hearts of the enemies of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of true aim.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You have loved justice and hated iniquity. Because of this, God, your God, has anointed you, before your co-heirs, with the oil of gladness.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Myrrh and balsam and cinnamon perfume your garments, from the houses of ivory. From these, they have delighted you:</p>

<p><a id="c44_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> the daughters of kings in your honor. The queen assisted at your right hand, in clothing of gold, encircled with diversity.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Listen, daughter, and see, and incline your ear. And forget your people and your father's house.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the king will desire your beauty. For he is the Lord your God, and they will adore him.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the daughters of Tyre will entreat your countenance with gifts: all the rich men of the people.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> All the glory of the daughter of its king is inside, in golden fringes,</p>

<p><a id="c44_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> clothed all around with diversities. After her, virgins will be led to the king. Her neighbors will be brought to you.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They will be brought with gladness and exultation. They will be led into the temple of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For your fathers, sons have been born to you. You will establish them as leaders over all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They will remember your name always, for generation after generation. Because of this, people will confess to you in eternity, even forever and ever.</p>

</body>
</html>