<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 144</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 144</h2>

<p><a id="c144_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Praise of David himself. I will extol you, O God, my king. And I will bless your name, in this time and forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Throughout every single day, I will bless you. And I will praise your name, in this time and forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The Lord is great and exceedingly praiseworthy. And there is no end to his greatness.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Generation after generation will praise your works, and they will declare your power.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They will tell of the magnificent glory of your sanctity. And they will discourse of your wonders.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they will talk about the virtue of your terrible acts. And they will describe your greatness.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They will shout about the memory of your abundant sweetness. And they will exult in your justice.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Lord is compassionate and merciful, patient and full of mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The Lord is sweet to all things, and his compassion is upon all his works.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> O Lord, may all your works confess to you, and let your holy ones bless you.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They will speak of the glory of your kingdom, and they will declare your power,</p>

<p><a id="c144_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> so as to make known to the sons of men your power and the glory of your magnificent kingdom.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Your kingdom is a kingdom for all ages, and your dominion is with all, from generation to generation. The Lord is faithful in all his words and holy in all his works.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The Lord lifts up all who have fallen down, and he sets upright all who have been thrown down.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> O Lord, all eyes hope in you, and you provide their food in due time.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> You open your hand, and you fill every kind of animal with a blessing.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The Lord is just in all his ways and holy in all his works.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The Lord is near to all who call upon him, to all who call upon him in truth.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He will do the will of those who fear him, and he will heed their supplication and accomplish their salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The Lord watches over all who love him. And he will destroy all sinners.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> My mouth will speak the praise of the Lord, and may all flesh bless his holy name, in this time and forever and ever.</p>

</body>
</html>