<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 70</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 70</h2>

<p><a id="c70_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David. Of the sons of Jonadab and the former captives. In you, O Lord, I have hoped; do not let me be brought to ruin forever.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Free me by your justice, and rescue me. Incline your ear to me, and save me.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Be a God of protection and a place of strength for me, so that you may accomplish my salvation. For you are my firmament and my refuge.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Rescue me, O my God, from the hand of the sinner, and from the hand of the unjust and those who act against the law.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For you, O Lord, are my patience: my hope from my youth, O Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In you, I have been confirmed from conception. From my mother's womb, you are my protector. In you, I will sing forever.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I have become to many as if I were a portent, but you are a strong helper.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let my mouth be filled with praise, so that I may sing your glory, your greatness all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Do not cast me off in the time of old age. Do not abandon me when my strength will fail.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For my enemies have spoken against me. And those who watched for my soul have taken counsel as one,</p>

<p><a id="c70_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> saying: "God has abandoned him. Pursue and overtake him. For there is no one to rescue him."</p>

<p><a id="c70_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> O God, do not be far from me. O my God, provide for my assistance.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> May they be confounded, and may they fail, who drag down my soul. Let them be covered with confusion and shame, who seek evils for me.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I will always have hope. And I will add more to all your praise.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My mouth will announce your justice, your salvation all day long. For I have not known letters.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will enter into the powers of the Lord. I will be mindful of your justice alone, O Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> You have taught me from my youth, O God. And so I will declare your wonders continuously,</p>

<p><a id="c70_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> even in old age and with grey hairs. Do not abandon me, O God, while I announce your arm to every future generation: your power</p>

<p><a id="c70_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and your justice, O God, even to the highest great things that you have done. O God, who is like you?</p>

<p><a id="c70_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> How great is the tribulation that you have revealed to me: very great and evil. And so, turning back, you have brought me to life, and you have led me back again from the abyss of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You have multiplied your magnificence. And so, turning back to me, you have consoled me.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Therefore, I will confess your truth to you, with the instruments of the Psalter. O God, I will sing psalms to you with stringed instruments, O Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> My lips will exult, when I sing to you, and also my soul, which you have redeemed.</p>

<p><a id="c70_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And even my tongue will meditate on your justice all day long, when those who seek evils for me have been confounded and set in awe.</p>

</body>
</html>