<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 84</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 84</h2>

<p><a id="c84_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Psalm to the sons of Korah.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O Lord, you have blessed your land. You have turned aside the captivity of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You have released the iniquity of your people. You have covered all their sins.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You have mitigated all your wrath. You have turned aside from the wrath of your indignation.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Convert us, O God, our Savior, and turn your anger away from us.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Will you be angry with us forever? And will you extend your wrath from generation to generation?</p>

<p><a id="c84_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> O God, you will turn back and revive us. And your people will rejoice in you.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O Lord, reveal to us your mercy, and grant to us your salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will listen to what the Lord God may be saying to me. For he will speak peace to his people, and to his saints, and to those who are being converted to the heart.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So then, truly his salvation is near to those who fear him, so that glory may inhabit our land.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Mercy and truth have met each other. Justice and peace have kissed.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Truth has risen from the earth, and justice has gazed down from heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For so will the Lord give goodness, and our earth will give her fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Justice will walk before him, and he will set his steps upon the way.</p>

</body>
</html>