<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. The understanding of the sons of Korah.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As the deer longs for fountains of water, so my soul longs for you, O God.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My soul has thirsted for the strong living God. When will I draw close and appear before the face of God?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My tears have been my bread, day and night. Meanwhile, it is said to me daily: "Where is your God?"</p>

<p><a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> These things I have remembered; and my soul within me, I have poured out. For I will cross into the place of the wonderful tabernacle, all the way to the house of God, with a voice of exultation and confession, the sound of feasting.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Why are you sad, my soul? And why do you disquiet me? Hope in God, for I will still confess to him: the salvation of my countenance,</p>

<p><a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and my God. My soul has been troubled within myself. Because of this, I will remember you from the land of the Jordan and from Hermon, from the little mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Abyss calls upon abyss, with the voice of your floodgate. All your heights and your waves have passed over me.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In the daylight, the Lord has ordered his mercy; and in the night, a canticle to him. With me is a prayer to the God of my life.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I will say to God, "You are my supporter. Why have you forgotten me? And why do I walk in mourning, while my adversary afflicts me?"</p>

<p><a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> While my bones are being broken, my enemies, who trouble me, have reproached me. Meanwhile, they say to me every single day, "Where is your God?"</p>

<p><a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My soul, why are you saddened? And why do you disquiet me? Hope in God, for I will still confess to him: the salvation of my countenance and my God.</p>

</body>
</html>