<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 143</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 143</h2>

<p><a id="c143_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David versus Goliath. Blessed is the Lord, my God, who trains my hands for the battle and my fingers for the war.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My mercy and my refuge, my supporter and my deliverer, my protector and him in whom I have hoped: he subdues my people under me.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O Lord, what is man that you have become known to him? Or the son of man that you consider him?</p>

<p><a id="c143_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Man has been made similar to vanity. His days pass by like a shadow.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O Lord, incline your heavens and descend. Touch the mountains, and they will smoke.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Send a flash of lightning, and you will scatter them. Shoot your arrows, and you will set them in disarray.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Send forth your hand from on high: rescue me, and free me from many waters, from the hand of the sons of foreigners.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Their mouth has been speaking vain things, and their right hand is the right hand of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> To you, O God, I will sing a new song. On the psaltery, with an instrument of ten strings, I will sing psalms to you.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He gives salvation to kings. He has redeemed your servant David from the malignant sword.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Rescue me, and deliver me from the hand of the sons of foreigners. Their mouth has been speaking vain things, and their right hand is the right hand of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Their sons are like new plantings in their youth. Their daughters are dressed up: adorned all around like the idols of a temple.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Their cupboards are full: overflowing from one thing into another. Their sheep bear young, brought forth in abundance.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Their cattle are fat. There is no ruined wall or passage, nor anyone crying out in their streets.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They have called the people that has these things: blessed. But blessed is the people whose God is the Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>