<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 108</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 108</h2>

<p><a id="c108_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Psalm of David.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O God, do not be silent toward my praise, for the mouth of the sinner and the mouth of the deceitful one have been opened against me.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They have spoken against me with deceitful tongues, and they have surrounded me with hateful words, and they fought against me over nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Instead of choosing to act on my behalf, they detracted me. But I gave myself to prayer.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they set evil against me, instead of good, and hatred, in return for my love.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Establish the sinner over him, and let the devil stand at his right hand.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When he is judged, may he go forth in condemnation, and may his prayer be counted as sin.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> May his days be few, and let another take his episcopate.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> May his sons be orphans, and his wife a widow.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> May his sons be carried by those who walk unsteadily, and may they go begging. And may they be cast out of their dwelling places.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> May the money lenders scrutinize all his belongings, and let foreigners plunder his labors.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> May there be no one to assist him, nor anyone to be compassionate to his orphaned children.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> May his posterity be in utter ruin. In one generation, may his name be wiped away.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> May the iniquity of his fathers return in memory before the sight of the Lord, and do not let the sin of his mother be wiped away.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> May these be opposite the Lord always, but let their memory perish from the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For certain things are not remembered about them, in order to be merciful.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And so the destitute man was pursued, with the beggar and the remorseful in heart, so as to be put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he loved a curse, and it came to him. And he was unwilling to have a blessing, and it went far from him. And he clothed himself with curses like a garment, and it entered his inner self like water, and it entered his bones like oil.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> May it be to him like a garment that covers him, and like a belt that always cinches him.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This is the work of those who detract me with the Lord and who speak evils against my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But as for you, Lord, O Lord: act on my behalf for your name's sake. For your mercy is sweet.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Free me, for I am destitute and poor, and my heart has been disquieted within me.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I have been taken away like a shadow when it declines, and I have been shaken off like locusts.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> My knees have been weakened by fasting, and my flesh has been replaced by oil.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I have become a disgrace to them. They saw me, and they shook their heads.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Help me, O Lord, my God. Save me according to your mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And let them know that this is your hand, and that you, O Lord, have done this.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> They will curse, and you will bless. May those who rise up against me be confounded. But your servant will rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> May those who detract me be clothed with shame, and may they be covered with their confusion, as if with a double cloak.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I will confess exceedingly to the Lord with my mouth. And I will praise him in the midst of the multitude.</p>

<p><a id="c108_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For he stands at the right hand of the poor, in order to save my soul from persecutors.</p>

</body>
</html>