<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Psalm of David. To you, Lord, I have lifted up my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In you, my God, I trust. Let me not be put to shame.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And do not let my enemies laugh at me. For all who remain with you will not be confounded.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> May all those who act unjustly over nothing be confounded. O Lord, demonstrate your ways to me, and teach me your paths.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Direct me in your truth, and teach me. For you are God, my Saviour, and I remain with you all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O Lord, remember your compassion and your mercies, which are from ages past.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Do not remember the offenses of my youth and my ignorances. Remember me according to your mercy, because of your goodness, O Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Lord is sweet and righteous. Because of this, he will grant a law to those who fall short in the way.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He will direct the mild in judgment. He will teach the meek his ways.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All the ways of the Lord are mercy and truth, to those who yearn for his covenant and his testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because of your name, O Lord, you will pardon my sin, for it is great.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Which is the man who fears the Lord? He has established a law for him, on the way that he has chosen.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His soul will dwell upon good things, and his offspring will inherit the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The Lord is a firmament to those who fear him, and his covenant will be made manifest to them.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My eyes are ever toward the Lord, for he will pull my feet from the snare.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Look upon me and have mercy on me; for I am alone and poor.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The troubles of my heart have been multiplied. Deliver me from my needfulness.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> See my lowliness and my hardship, and release all my offenses.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Consider my enemies, for they have been multiplied, and they have hated me with an unjust hatred.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Preserve my soul and rescue me. I will not be ashamed, for I have hoped in you.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The innocent and the righteous have adhered to me, because I have remained with you.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Free Israel, O God, from all his tribulations.</p>

</body>
</html>