<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 54</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 54</h2>

<p><a id="c54_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. In verses, the understanding of David.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Listen to my prayer, O God, and despise not my supplication.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Be attentive to me, and heed me. I have been grieved in my training, and I have been disturbed</p>

<p><a id="c54_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> at the voice of the adversary and at the tribulation of the sinner. For they have diverted iniquities toward me, and they have been harassing me with rage.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My heart has become disturbed within me, and the dread of death has fallen over me.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Fear and trembling have overwhelmed me, and darkness has buried me.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I said, "Who will give me wings like the dove, so that I may fly away and take rest?"</p>

<p><a id="c54_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behold, I have fled far away, and I linger in solitude.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I waited for him who saved me from a weak-minded spirit and from a tempest.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Cast them down, O Lord, and divide their tongues. For I have seen iniquity and contradiction in the city.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Day and night, iniquity will surround it upon its walls, and hardship is in its midst,</p>

<p><a id="c54_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> with injustice. And usury and deceit have not fallen away from its streets.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For if my enemy had spoken evil about me, certainly, I would have sustained it. And if he who hated me had been speaking great things against me, I would perhaps have hidden myself from him.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Truly, you are a man of one mind: my leader and my acquaintance,</p>

<p><a id="c54_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> who took sweet food together with me. In the house of God, we walked side-by-side.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let death come upon them, and let them descend alive into Hellfire. For there is wickedness in their dwellings, in their midst.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But I have cried out to God, and the Lord will save me.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Evening and morning and midday, I will discourse and announce, and he will heed my voice.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He will redeem my soul in peace from those who draw near to me. For, among the many, they were with me.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> God will hear, and He who is before time will humble them. For there is no change with them, and they have not feared God.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He has stretched forth his hand in retribution. They have contaminated his covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They were divided by the wrath of his countenance, and his heart has drawn near. His words are smoother than oil, and they are arrows.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Cast your cares upon the Lord, and he will nurture you. He will not allow the just to be tossed about forever.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Truly, O God, you will lead them away into the well of death. Bloody and deceitful men will not divide their days in half. But I will hope in you, O Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>