<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 148</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 148</h2>

<p><a id="c148_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Alleluia. Praise the Lord from the heavens. Praise him on the heights.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Praise him, all his Angels. Praise him, all his hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Praise him, sun and moon. Praise him, all stars and light.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Praise him, heavens of the heavens. And let all the waters that are above the heavens</p>

<p><a id="c148_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> praise the name of the Lord. For he spoke, and they became. He commanded, and they were created.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He has stationed them in eternity, and for age after age. He has established a precept, and it will not pass away.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Praise the Lord from the earth: you dragons and all deep places,</p>

<p><a id="c148_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> fire, hail, snow, ice, windstorms, which do his word,</p>

<p><a id="c148_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> mountains and all hills, fruitful trees and all cedars,</p>

<p><a id="c148_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> wild beasts and all cattle, serpents and feathered flying things,</p>

<p><a id="c148_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> kings of the earth and all peoples, leaders and all judges of the earth,</p>

<p><a id="c148_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> young men and virgins. Let the older men with the younger men, praise the name of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For his name alone is exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Confession of him is beyond heaven and earth, and he has exalted the horn of his people. A hymn to all his holy ones, to the sons of Israel, to a people close to him. Alleluia.</p>

</body>
</html>