<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 43</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 43</h2>

<p><a id="c43_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. To the sons of Korah, toward understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> We have heard, O God, with our own ears. Our fathers have announced to us the work that you wrought in their days and in the days of antiquity.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Your hand dispersed the Gentiles, and you transplanted them. You afflicted a people, and you expelled them.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For they did not take possession of the land by their sword, and their own arm did not save them. But your right hand and your arm, and the light of your countenance did so, because you were pleased with them.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You yourself are my king and my God, who commands the salvation of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> With you, we will brandish a horn before our enemies; and in your name, we will spurn those rising up against us.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For I will not hope in my bow, and my sword will not save me.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For you have saved us from those who afflict us, and you have bewildered those who hate us.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In God, we will give praise all day long; and in your name, we will confess forever.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But now, you have rejected and bewildered us, and you will not go forth with our armies, O God.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You have turned our back to our enemies, and those who hated us have plundered for themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You have given us over like sheep for food. You have scattered us among the Gentiles.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You have sold your people without a price, and no great number was exchanged for them.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You have set us as a disgrace to our neighbors, a scoff and a derision to those who are around us.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You have set us as a parable among the Gentiles, a shaking of the head among the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> All day long my shame is before me, and the confusion of my face has covered me,</p>

<p><a id="c43_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> before the voice of the reproacher and the commentator, before the face of the adversary and the pursuer.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> All these things have come upon us, yet we have not forgotten you, and we have not acted unjustly in your covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And our heart has not turned back. And you have not diverted our steps from your way.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For you humbled us in a place of affliction, and the shadow of death has covered us.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> If we have forgotten the name of our God, and if we have extended our hands to a foreign god,</p>

<p><a id="c43_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> will not God find this out? For he knows the secrets of the heart. For, because of you, we are being killed all day long. We are considered as sheep for the slaughter.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Rise up. Why do you fall asleep, O Lord? Rise up, and do not reject us in the end.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Why do you turn your face away, and why do you forget our needfulness and our tribulation?</p>

<p><a id="c43_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For our soul has been humbled into the dust. Our belly has been bound to the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Rise up, O Lord. Help us and redeem us, because of your name.</p>

</body>
</html>