<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 59</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 59</h2>

<p><a id="c59_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. For those who will be changed, with the inscription of a title, of David himself, for instruction:</p>

<p><a id="c59_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> when he set fire to Mesopotamia of Syria and Sobal, and Joab turned back and struck Idumea, in the valley of the salt pits, twelve thousand men.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O God, you have rejected us, and you have ruined us. You became angry, and yet you have been merciful to us.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You have moved the earth, and you have disturbed it. Heal its breaches, for it has been moved.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You have revealed to your people difficulties. You have made us drink the wine of remorse.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You have given a warning sign to those who fear you, so that they may flee from before the face of the bow, so that your beloved may be delivered.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Save me with your right hand, and hear me.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> God has spoken in his holy place: I will rejoice, and I will divide Shechem, and I will measure the steep valley of the tabernacles.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine. And Ephraim is the strength of my head. Judah is my king.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Moab is the cooking pot of my hope. Into Idumea, I will extend my shoe. To me, the foreigners have been made subject.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who will lead me into the fortified city? Who will lead me all the way to Idumea?</p>

<p><a id="c59_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Will not you, O God, who has rejected us? And will not you, O God, go out with our armies?</p>

<p><a id="c59_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Grant us help from tribulation. For salvation from man is empty.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In God, we will act virtuously. And those who trouble us, he will lead to nothing.</p>

</body>
</html>