<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 100</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 100</h2>

<p><a id="c100_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David himself. I will sing mercy and judgment to you, O Lord. I will sing psalms.</p>

<p><a id="c100_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I will have understanding within the immaculate way, when you will draw near to me. I wandered about in the innocence of my heart, in the midst of my house.</p>

<p><a id="c100_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will not display any unjust thing before my eyes. I have hated those carrying out betrayals.</p>

<p><a id="c100_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The perverse heart did not adhere to me. And the malignant, who turned away before me, I would not recognize.</p>

<p><a id="c100_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The one who secretly detracted his neighbor, this one I pursued. The one with an arrogant eye and an insatiable heart, with that one I would not eat.</p>

<p><a id="c100_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My eyes looked toward the faithful of the earth, to sit with me. The one walking in the immaculate way, this one ministered to me.</p>

<p><a id="c100_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He who has acted arrogantly will not dwell in the midst of my house. He who has spoken iniquity was not guided with the sight of my eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c100_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In the morning, I executed all the sinners of the earth, so that I might scatter all the workers of iniquity from the city of the Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>