<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 79</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 79</h2>

<p><a id="c79_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. For those who will be changed. The testimony of Asaph. A Psalm.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The One who reigns over Israel: Be attentive. For you lead Joseph like a sheep. The One who sits upon the cherubim: Shine forth</p>

<p><a id="c79_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> in the presence of Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh. Awaken your power and draw near, so as to accomplish our salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Convert us, O God. And reveal your face, and we will be saved.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O Lord, God of hosts, how long will you be angry over the prayer of your servant?</p>

<p><a id="c79_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> How long will you feed us the bread of tears, and give us to drink a full measure of tears?</p>

<p><a id="c79_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You have set us as a contradiction to our neighbors. And our enemies have ridiculed us.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O God of hosts, convert us. And reveal your face, and we will be saved.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You have transferred a vineyard from Egypt. You have cast out the Gentiles, and planted it.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You were the leader of the journey in its sight. You planted its roots, and it filled the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Its shadow covered the hills, and its branches covered the cedars of God.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> It extended its new branches even to the sea, and its new seedlings even to the river.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So then, why have you destroyed its walls, so that all those who pass by the way gather its grapes?</p>

<p><a id="c79_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The wild boar of the forest has trampled it, and a single wild beast has laid waste to it.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Turn back, O God of hosts. Look down from heaven, and see, and visit this vineyard;</p>

<p><a id="c79_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and complete what your right hand has planted, and look upon the son of man, whom you have confirmed for yourself.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Whatever has been set on fire and dug under will perish at the rebuke of your countenance.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let your hand be over the man on your right, and over the son of man, whom you have confirmed for yourself.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For we do not depart from you, and you will revive us. And we will invoke your name.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> O Lord, God of hosts, convert us. And reveal your face, and we will be saved.</p>

</body>
</html>