<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 49</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 49</h2>

<p><a id="c49_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of Asaph. The God of gods, the Lord has spoken, and he has called the earth, from the rising of the sun even to its setting,</p>

<p><a id="c49_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> from Zion, the brilliance of his beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> God will arrive manifestly. Our God also will not keep silence. A fire will flare up in his sight, and a mighty tempest will surround him.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He will call to heaven from above, and to the earth, to discern his people.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Gather his holy ones to him, you who order his covenant above sacrifices.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the heavens will announce his justice. For God is the judge.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Listen, my people, and I will speak. Listen, Israel, and I will testify for you. I am God, your God.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will not reprove you for your sacrifices. Moreover, your holocausts are ever in my sight.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will not accept calves from your house, nor he-goats from your flocks.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For all the wild beasts of the forest are mine: the cattle on the hills and the oxen.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I know all the flying things of the air, and the beauty of the field is with me.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If I should be hungry, I would not tell you: for the whole world is mine, and all its plentitude.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Shall I gnaw on the flesh of bulls? Or would I drink the blood of goats?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Offer to God the sacrifice of praise, and pay your vows to the Most High.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And call upon me in the day of tribulation. I will rescue you, and you will honor me.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But to the sinner, God has said: Why do you discourse on my justices, and take up my covenant through your mouth?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Truly, you have hated discipline, and you have cast my sermons behind you.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If you saw a thief, you ran with him, and you have placed your portion with adulterers.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Your mouth has abounded with malice, and your tongue has concocted deceits.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Sitting, you spoke against your brother, and you set up a scandal against your mother's son.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> These things you have done, and I was silent. You thought, unjustly, that I ought to be like you. But I will reprove you, and I will set myself against your face.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Understand these things, you who forget God; lest at any time, he might quickly take you away, and there would be no one to rescue you.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The sacrifice of praise will honor me. And in that place is the journey by which I will reveal to him the salvation of God.</p>

</body>
</html>