<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 118</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 118</h2>

<p><a id="c118_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Alleluia. ALEPH. Blessed are the immaculate in the way, who walk in the law of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Blessed are those who examine his testimonies. They seek him with their whole heart.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For those who work iniquity have not walked in his ways.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You have ordered your commandments to be kept most diligently.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I wish that my ways may be directed so as to keep your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then I will not be confounded, when I will look into all your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will confess to you with honesty of heart. In this way, I have learned the judgments of your justice.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will keep your justifications. Do not utterly abandon me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> BETH. By what does an adolescent correct his way? By keeping to your words.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> With my whole heart, I have sought you. Do not let me be driven away from your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I have hidden your eloquence in my heart, so that I may not sin against you.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed are you, O Lord. Teach me your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> With my lips, I have pronounced all the judgments of your mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have been delighted in the way of your testimonies, as if in all riches.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will be trained in your commandments, and I will consider your ways.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will meditate on your justifications. I will not forget your words.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> GHIMEL. Repay your servant, revive me; and I will keep your words.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Reveal to my eyes, and I will consider the wonders of your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I am a sojourner on the earth. Do not hide your commandments from me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My soul has longed to desire your justifications at all times.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You have rebuked the arrogant. Those who decline from your commandments are accursed.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Take me away from disgrace and contempt, for I have sought your testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For even the leaders sat and spoke against me. But your servant has been trained in your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For your testimonies are also my meditation, and your justifications are my counsel.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> DALETH. My soul has adhered to the pavement. Revive me according to your word.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I have declared my ways, and you have heeded me. Teach me your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Instruct me in the way of your justifications, and I will be trained in your wonders.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> My soul has slumbered because of weariness. Confirm me in your words.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Remove the way of iniquity from me, and have mercy on me by your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I have chosen the way of truth. I have not forgotten your judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> I have adhered to your testimonies, O Lord. Do not be willing to confound me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> I have run by way of your commandments, when you enlarged my heart.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> HE. O Lord, place the law before me, the way of your justifications, and I will always inquire into it.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Give me understanding, and I will examine your law. And I will keep it with my whole heart.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Lead me according to the path of your commandments, for I have desired this.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Bend my heart with your testimonies, and not with avarice.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Turn my eyes away, lest they see what is vain. Revive me in your way.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Station your eloquence with your servant, along with your fear.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Cut off my disgrace, which I have taken up, for your judgments are delightful.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Behold, I have longed for your commandments. Revive me in your fairness.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> VAU. And let your mercy overwhelm me, O Lord: your salvation according to your eloquence.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And I will respond to those who reproach me by word, for I have hoped in your words.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And do not utterly take away the word of truth from my mouth. For in your judgments, I have hoped beyond hope.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And I will always keep your law, in this age and forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And I have wandered far and wide, because I was seeking your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And I spoke of your testimonies in the sight of kings, and I was not confounded.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And I meditated on your commandments, which I loved.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And I lifted up my hands to your commandments, which I loved. And I was trained in your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> ZAIN. Be mindful of your word to your servant, by which you have given me hope.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> This has consoled me in my humiliation, for your word has revived me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> The arrogant act altogether iniquitously, but I have not turned aside from your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> I called to mind your judgments of antiquity, O Lord, and I was consoled.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Faintness has taken hold of me, because of the sinners, those who abandon your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Your justifications were the subject of my worthy singing, in the place of my pilgrimage.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> During the night, I remembered your name, O Lord, and I kept your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> This has happened to me because I sought your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> HETH. O Lord, my portion, I have said that I would keep your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> I have beseeched your face with my whole heart. Be merciful to me according to your word.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> I have considered my ways, and I have turned my feet toward your testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> I have been prepared, and I have not been disturbed, so that I may keep your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> The ropes of the impious have encircled me, and I have not forgotten your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> I arose in the middle of the night to confess to you, over the judgments of your justification.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> I am a partaker with all those who fear you and who keep your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> The earth, O Lord, is full of your mercy. Teach me your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> TETH. You have done well with your servant, O Lord, according to your word.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> Teach me goodness and discipline and knowledge, for I have trusted your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> Before I was humbled, I committed offenses; because of this, I have kept to your word.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> You are good, so in your goodness teach me your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> The iniquity of the arrogant has been multiplied over me. Yet I will examine your commandments with all my heart.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> Their heart has been curdled like milk. Truly, I have meditated on your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> It is good for me that you humbled me, so that I may learn your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> The law of your mouth is good for me, beyond thousands of gold and silver pieces.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v73"></a><span class="vn">73</span> IOD. Your hands have created me and formed me. Give me understanding, and I will learn your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v74"></a><span class="vn">74</span> Those who fear you will see me, and they will rejoice. For I have greatly hoped in your words.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v75"></a><span class="vn">75</span> I know, O Lord, that your judgments are fairness. And in your truth, you have humbled me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v76"></a><span class="vn">76</span> Let it be your mercy that consoles me, according to your eloquence to your servant.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v77"></a><span class="vn">77</span> Let your compassion draw near to me, and I will live. For your law is my meditation.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v78"></a><span class="vn">78</span> Let the arrogant be confounded, for unjustly they have done iniquity to me. But I will be trained in your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v79"></a><span class="vn">79</span> Let those who fear you turn to me, along with those who know your testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v80"></a><span class="vn">80</span> Let my heart be immaculate in your justifications, so that I may not be confounded.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v81"></a><span class="vn">81</span> CAPH. My soul has faltered in your salvation, yet in your word, I have hoped beyond hope.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v82"></a><span class="vn">82</span> My eyes have failed in your eloquence, saying, "When will you console me?"</p>

<p><a id="c118_v83"></a><span class="vn">83</span> For I have become like a wineskin in the frost. I have not forgotten your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v84"></a><span class="vn">84</span> How many are the days of your servant? When will you bring judgment against those who persecute me?</p>

<p><a id="c118_v85"></a><span class="vn">85</span> The iniquitous have spoken fables to me. But these are unlike your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v86"></a><span class="vn">86</span> All your commandments are truth. They have been persecuting me unjustly: assist me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v87"></a><span class="vn">87</span> They have nearly consumed me on earth. Yet I have not forsaken your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v88"></a><span class="vn">88</span> Revive me according to your mercy. And I will keep the testimonies of your mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v89"></a><span class="vn">89</span> LAMED. O Lord, your word remains firm in heaven, for all eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v90"></a><span class="vn">90</span> Your truth is from generation to generation. You have founded the earth, and it remains firm.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v91"></a><span class="vn">91</span> By your ordinance, the day perseveres. For all things are in service to you.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v92"></a><span class="vn">92</span> If your law had not been my meditation, then perhaps I would have perished in my humiliation.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v93"></a><span class="vn">93</span> I will not forget your justifications, for eternity. For by them, you have enlivened me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v94"></a><span class="vn">94</span> I am yours. Accomplish my salvation. For I have inquired into your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v95"></a><span class="vn">95</span> The sinners have waited for me, in order to destroy me. I have understood your testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v96"></a><span class="vn">96</span> I have seen the end of the consummation of all things. Your commandment is exceedingly broad.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v97"></a><span class="vn">97</span> MEM. How have I loved your law, O Lord? It is my meditation all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v98"></a><span class="vn">98</span> By your commandment, you have made me able to see far, beyond my enemies. For it is with me for eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v99"></a><span class="vn">99</span> I have understood beyond all my teachers. For your testimonies are my meditation.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v100"></a><span class="vn">100</span> I have understood beyond the elders. For I have searched your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v101"></a><span class="vn">101</span> I have prohibited my feet from every evil way, so that I may keep your words.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v102"></a><span class="vn">102</span> I have not declined from your judgments, because you have stationed a law for me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v103"></a><span class="vn">103</span> How sweet is your eloquence to my palate, more so than honey to my mouth!</p>

<p><a id="c118_v104"></a><span class="vn">104</span> I obtained understanding by your commandments. Because of this, I have hated every way of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v105"></a><span class="vn">105</span> NUN. Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my paths.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v106"></a><span class="vn">106</span> I have sworn it, and so I am determined to keep the judgments of your justice.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v107"></a><span class="vn">107</span> I have been altogether humbled, Lord. Revive me according to your word.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v108"></a><span class="vn">108</span> Make the willing offerings of my mouth well pleasing, Lord, and teach me your judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v109"></a><span class="vn">109</span> My soul is always in my hands, and I have not forgotten your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v110"></a><span class="vn">110</span> Sinners have set a snare for me, yet I have not strayed from your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v111"></a><span class="vn">111</span> I have acquired your testimonies as an inheritance unto eternity, because they are the exultation of my heart.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v112"></a><span class="vn">112</span> I have inclined my heart to do your justifications for eternity, as a recompense.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v113"></a><span class="vn">113</span> SAMECH. I have hated the iniquitous, and I have loved your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v114"></a><span class="vn">114</span> You are my helper and my supporter. And in your word, I have greatly hoped.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v115"></a><span class="vn">115</span> Turn away from me, you malignant ones. And I will examine the commandments of my God.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v116"></a><span class="vn">116</span> Uphold me according to your eloquence, and I will live. And let me not be confounded in my expectation.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v117"></a><span class="vn">117</span> Help me, and I will be saved. And I will meditate always on your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v118"></a><span class="vn">118</span> You have despised all those who fell away from your judgments. For their intention is unjust.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v119"></a><span class="vn">119</span> I have considered all the sinners of the earth to be transgressors. Therefore, I have loved your testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v120"></a><span class="vn">120</span> Pierce my flesh with your fear, for I am afraid of your judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v121"></a><span class="vn">121</span> AIN. I have accomplished judgment and justice. Do not hand me over to those who slander me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v122"></a><span class="vn">122</span> Uphold your servant in what is good. And do not allow the arrogant to slander me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v123"></a><span class="vn">123</span> My eyes have failed in your salvation and in the eloquence of your justice.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v124"></a><span class="vn">124</span> Deal with your servant according to your mercy, and teach me your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v125"></a><span class="vn">125</span> I am your servant. Give me understanding, so that I may know your testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v126"></a><span class="vn">126</span> It is time to act, O Lord. They have dissipated your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v127"></a><span class="vn">127</span> Therefore, I have loved your commandments beyond gold and topaz.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v128"></a><span class="vn">128</span> Because of this, I was directed toward all your commandments. I held hatred for every iniquitous way.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v129"></a><span class="vn">129</span> PHE. Your testimonies are wonderful. Therefore, my soul has been examined by them.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v130"></a><span class="vn">130</span> The declaration of your words illuminates, and it gives understanding to little ones.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v131"></a><span class="vn">131</span> I opened my mouth and drew breath, for I desired your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v132"></a><span class="vn">132</span> Gaze upon me and be merciful to me, according to the judgment of those who love your name.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v133"></a><span class="vn">133</span> Direct my steps according to your eloquence, and let no injustice rule over me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v134"></a><span class="vn">134</span> Redeem me from the slanders of men, so that I may keep your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v135"></a><span class="vn">135</span> Make your face shine upon your servant, and teach me your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v136"></a><span class="vn">136</span> My eyes have gushed like springs of water, because they have not kept your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v137"></a><span class="vn">137</span> SADE. You are just, O Lord, and your judgment is right.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v138"></a><span class="vn">138</span> You have commanded justice: your testimonies and your truth even more so.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v139"></a><span class="vn">139</span> My zeal has caused me to pine away, because my enemies have forgotten your words.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v140"></a><span class="vn">140</span> Your eloquence has been greatly enflamed, and your servant has loved it.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v141"></a><span class="vn">141</span> I am young and treated with contempt. But I have not forgotten your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v142"></a><span class="vn">142</span> Your justice is justice for all eternity, and your law is truth.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v143"></a><span class="vn">143</span> Tribulation and anguish have found me. Your commandments are my meditation.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v144"></a><span class="vn">144</span> Your testimonies are fairness unto eternity. Give me understanding, and I will live.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v145"></a><span class="vn">145</span> COPH. I cried out with my whole heart. Heed me, O Lord. I will ask for your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v146"></a><span class="vn">146</span> I cried out to you. Save me, so that I may keep your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v147"></a><span class="vn">147</span> I arrived first in maturity, and so I cried out. For in your words, I have hoped beyond hope.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v148"></a><span class="vn">148</span> My eyes preceded the dawn for you, so that I might meditate on your eloquence.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v149"></a><span class="vn">149</span> Hear my voice according to your mercy, O Lord. And revive me according to your judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v150"></a><span class="vn">150</span> Those who persecute me have drawn near to iniquity, but they been brought far from your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v151"></a><span class="vn">151</span> You are near, O Lord, and all your ways are truth.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v152"></a><span class="vn">152</span> I have known from the beginning about your testimonies. For you founded them in eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v153"></a><span class="vn">153</span> RES. See my humiliation and rescue me, for I have not forgotten your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v154"></a><span class="vn">154</span> Judge my judgment and redeem me. Revive me because of your eloquence.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v155"></a><span class="vn">155</span> Salvation is far from sinners, because they have not inquired about your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v156"></a><span class="vn">156</span> Many are your mercies, O Lord. Enliven me according to your judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v157"></a><span class="vn">157</span> Many are those who persecute me and who trouble me. I have not turned away from your testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v158"></a><span class="vn">158</span> I saw the prevaricators, and I pine away. For they have not kept your word.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v159"></a><span class="vn">159</span> O Lord, see how I have loved your commandments. Revive me in your mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v160"></a><span class="vn">160</span> The beginning of your words is truth. All the judgments of your justice are for eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v161"></a><span class="vn">161</span> SIN. The leaders have persecuted me without cause. And my heart has been awed by your words.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v162"></a><span class="vn">162</span> I will rejoice over your eloquence, like one who has found many spoils.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v163"></a><span class="vn">163</span> I have held hatred for iniquity, and I have abhorred it. Yet I have loved your law.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v164"></a><span class="vn">164</span> Seven times a day, I uttered praise to you about the judgments of your justice.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v165"></a><span class="vn">165</span> Those who love your law have great peace, and there is no scandal for them.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v166"></a><span class="vn">166</span> I have waited for your salvation, O Lord. And I have loved your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v167"></a><span class="vn">167</span> My soul has kept to your testimonies and has loved them exceedingly.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v168"></a><span class="vn">168</span> I have served your commandments and your testimonies. For all my ways are before your sight.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v169"></a><span class="vn">169</span> TAU. O Lord, let my supplication draw near in your sight. Grant understanding to me according to your eloquence.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v170"></a><span class="vn">170</span> Let my petition enter before you. Rescue me according to your word.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v171"></a><span class="vn">171</span> A hymn will burst forth from my lips, when you will teach me your justifications.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v172"></a><span class="vn">172</span> My tongue will pronounce your eloquence. For all your commandments are fairness.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v173"></a><span class="vn">173</span> Let it be your hand that saves me. For I have chosen your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v174"></a><span class="vn">174</span> O Lord, I have longed for your salvation, and your law is my meditation.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v175"></a><span class="vn">175</span> My soul will live and will praise you, and your judgments will assist me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v176"></a><span class="vn">176</span> I have gone astray like a sheep that is lost. Seek out your servant, for I have not forgotten your commandments.</p>

</body>
</html>