<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 68</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 68</h2>

<p><a id="c68_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. For those who will be changed: of David.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Save me, O God, for the waters have entered, even to my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have become stuck in a deep quagmire, and there is no firm footing. I have arrived at the height of the sea, and a tempest has overwhelmed me.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I have endured hardships, while crying out. My jaws have become hoarse; my eyes have failed. Meanwhile, I hope in my God.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Those who hate me without cause have been multiplied beyond the hairs of my head. My enemies, who persecuted me unjustly, have been strengthened. Then I was required to pay for what I did not take.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O God, you know my foolishness, and my offenses have not been hidden from you.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let those who wait for you, O Lord, the Lord of hosts, not be shamed in me. Let those who seek you, O God of Israel, not be confounded over me.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For because of you, I have endured reproach; confusion has covered my face.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I have become a stranger to my brothers and a sojourner to the sons of my mother.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For zeal for your house has consumed me, and the reproaches of those who reproached you have fallen upon me.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I covered my soul with fasting, and it has become a reproach to me.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I put on a haircloth as my garment, and I became a parable to them.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Those who sat at the gate spoke against me, and those who drank wine made me their song.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But as for me, truly, my prayer is to you, O Lord. This time has pleased you well, O God. In the multitude of your mercy, in the truth of your salvation, hear me.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Rescue me from the quagmire, so that I may not become trapped. Free me from those who hate me and from deep waters.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Do not allow the tempest of water to submerge me, nor the deep to absorb me. And do not allow the well to close in on me.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Hear me, O Lord, for your mercy is kind. Look upon me, according to the fullness of your compassion.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And do not turn your face away from your servant, for I am in trouble: heed me quickly.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Attend to my soul, and free it. Rescue me, because of my enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You know my reproach, and my confusion, and my reverence.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> All those who trouble me are in your sight; my heart has anticipated reproach and misery. And I sought for one who might grieve together with me, but there was no one, and for one who might console me, and I found no one.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they gave me gall for my food. And in my thirst, they gave me vinegar to drink.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Let their table be a snare before them, and a retribution, and a scandal.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Let their eyes be darkened, so that they may not see, and may their back always be crooked.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Pour out your indignation upon them, and may the fury of your anger take hold of them.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> May their dwelling place be deserted, and may there be no one who dwells in their tabernacles.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For they persecuted whomever you struck. And they have added to the grief of my wounds.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Assign an iniquity upon their iniquity, and may they not enter into your justice.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Delete them from the Book of the Living, and let them not be written down with the just.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I am poor and sorrowful, but your salvation, O God, has taken me up.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> I will praise the name of God with a canticle, and I will magnify him with praise.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And it will please God more than a new calf producing horns and hoofs.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Let the poor see and rejoice. Seek God, and your soul will live.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For the Lord has heard the poor, and he has not despised his prisoners.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Let the heavens and the earth praise him: the sea, and everything that crawls in it.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For God will save Zion, and the cities of Judah will be built up. And they will dwell there, and they will acquire it by inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And the offspring of his servants will possess it; and those who love his name will dwell in it.</p>

</body>
</html>