<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. For David, the servant of the Lord, who spoke the words of this canticle to the Lord, in the day that the Lord delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. And he said:</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will love you, O Lord my strength.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The Lord is my firmament, my refuge, and my liberator. My God is my helper, and I hope in him: my protector, and the horn of my salvation, and my support.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Praising, I will call upon the Lord. And I will be saved from my enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The sorrows of death surrounded me, and the torrents of iniquity dismayed me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The sorrows of Hell encompassed me, and the snares of death intercepted me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In my tribulation, I called upon the Lord, and I cried out to my God. And he listened to my voice from his holy temple. And my cry in his presence entered into his ears.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The earth was shaken, and it trembled. The foundations of the mountains were disturbed, and they were shaken, because he was angry with them.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A smoke ascended by his wrath, and a fire flared up from his face: coals were kindled by it.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He bent the heavens, and they descended. And darkness was under his feet.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he ascended upon the cherubim, and he flew: he flew upon the feathers of the winds.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he set darkness as his hiding place, with his tabernacle all around him: dark waters in the clouds of the air.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> At the brightness that was before his sight, the clouds crossed by, with hail and coals of fire.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the Lord thundered from heaven, and the Most High uttered his voice: hail and coals of fire.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he sent forth his arrows and scattered them. He multiplied lightnings, and he set them in disarray.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then the fountains of waters appeared, and the foundations of the world were revealed, by your rebuke, O Lord, by the inspiration of the Spirit of your wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He sent from on high, and he accepted me. And he took me up, out of many waters.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He rescued me from my strongest enemies, and from those who hated me. For they had been too strong for me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They intercepted me in the day of my affliction, and the Lord became my protector.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he led me out, into a wide place. He accomplished my salvation, because he willed me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the Lord will reward me according to my justice, and he will repay me according to the purity of my hands.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I have preserved the ways of the Lord, and I have not behaved impiously before my God.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For all his judgments are in my sight, and his justice, I have not pushed away from me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And I will be immaculate together with him, and I will keep myself from my iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the Lord will reward me according to my justice and according to the purity of my hands before his eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> With the holy, you will be holy, and with the innocent, you will be innocent,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and with the elect, you will be elect, and with the perverse, you will be perverse.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For you will save the humble people, but you will bring down the eyes of the arrogant.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For you illuminate my lamp, O Lord. My God, enlighten my darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For in you, I will be delivered from temptation; and with my God, I will climb over a wall.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> As for my God, his way is undefiled. The eloquence of the Lord has been examined by fire. He is the protector of all who hope in him.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For who is God, except the Lord? And who is God, except our God?</p>

<p><a id="c17_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> It is God who has wrapped me with virtue and made my way immaculate.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> It is he who has perfected my feet, like the feet of deer, and who stations me upon the heights.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> It is he who trains my hands for battle. And you have set my arms like a bow of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And you have given me the protection of your salvation. And your right hand sustains me. And your discipline has corrected me unto the end. And your discipline itself will teach me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> You have expanded my footsteps under me, and my tracks have not been weakened.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> I will pursue my enemies and apprehend them. And I will not turn back until they have failed.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> I will break them, and they will not be able to stand. They will fall under my feet.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And you have wrapped me with virtue for the battle. And those rising up against me, you have subdued under me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And you have given the back of my enemies to me, and you have destroyed those who hated me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> They cried out, but there was none to save them, to the Lord, but he did not heed them.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And I will crush them into dust before the face of the wind, so that I will obliterate them like the mud in the streets.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> You will rescue me from the contradictions of the people. You will set me at the head of the Gentiles.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> A people I did not know has served me. As soon as their ears heard, they were obedient to me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> The sons of foreigners have been deceitful to me, the sons of foreigners have grown weak with time, and they have wavered from their paths.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> The Lord lives, and blessed is my God, and may the God of my salvation be exalted:</p>

<p><a id="c17_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> O God, who vindicates me and who subdues the people under me, my liberator from my enraged enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And you will exalt me above those who rise up against me. From the iniquitous man, you will rescue me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Because of this, O Lord, I will confess to you among the nations, and I will compose a psalm to your name:</p>

<p><a id="c17_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> magnifying the salvation of his king, and showing mercy to David, his Christ, and to his offspring, even for all time.</p>

</body>
</html>