<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Why have the Gentiles been seething, and why have the people been pondering nonsense?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The kings of the earth have stood up, and the leaders have joined together as one, against the Lord and against his Christ:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> "Let us shatter their chains and cast their yoke away from us."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He who dwells in heaven will ridicule them, and the Lord will mock them.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then will he speak to them in his anger and trouble them with his fury.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yet I have been appointed king by him over Zion, his holy mountain, preaching his precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The Lord has said to me: You are my son, this day have I begotten you.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ask of me and I will give to you: the Gentiles for your inheritance, and the ends of the earth for your possession.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You will rule them with an iron rod, and you will shatter them like a potter's vessel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And now, O kings, understand. Receive instruction, you who judge the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Serve the Lord in fear, and exult in him with trembling.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Embrace discipline, lest at any time the Lord might become angry, and you would perish from the way of the just.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Though his wrath can flare up in a short time, blessed are all those who trust in him.</p>

</body>
</html>