<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 47</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 47</h2>

<p><a id="c47_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Canticle Psalm. To the sons of Korah, on the second Sabbath.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The Lord is great and exceedingly praiseworthy, in the city of our God, on his holy mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Mount Zion is being founded with the exultation of the whole earth, on the north side, the city of the great king.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In her houses, God will be known, since he will support her.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For behold, the kings of the earth have been gathered together; they have convened as one.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Such did they see, and they were astonished: they were disturbed, they were moved.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Trembling took hold of them. In that place, their pains were that of a woman in labor.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> With a vehement spirit, you will crush the ships of Tarshish.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> As we have heard, so we have seen, in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God. God has founded it in eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> We have received your mercy, O God, in the midst of your temple.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> According to your name, O God, so does your praise reach to the ends of the earth. Your right hand is full of justice.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let mount Zion rejoice, and let the daughters of Judah exult, because of your judgments, O Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Encircle Zion and embrace her. Discourse in her towers.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Set your hearts on her virtue. And distribute her houses, so that you may discourse of it in another generation.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For this is God, our God, in eternity and forever and ever. He will rule us forever.</p>

</body>
</html>