<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Psalm of David.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In your virtue, Lord, the king will rejoice, and over your salvation, he will exult exceedingly.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You have granted him the desire of his heart, and you have not cheated him of the wish of his lips.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For you have gone ahead of him with blessings of sweetness. You have placed a crown of precious stones on his head.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He petitioned you for life, and you have granted him length of days, in the present time, and forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Great is his glory in your salvation. Glory and great adornment, you will lay upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For you will give him as a blessing forever and ever. You will make him rejoice with gladness in your presence.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Because the king hopes in the Lord, and in the mercy of the Most High, he will not be disturbed.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> May your hand be found by all your enemies. May your right hand discover all those who hate you.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You will make them like an oven of fire, in the time of your presence. The Lord will stir them up with his wrath, and fire will devour them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You will destroy their fruit from the earth and their offspring from the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For they have turned evils upon you; they have devised plans, which they have not been able to accomplish.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For you will make them turn their back; with your remnants, you will prepare their countenance.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Be exalted, Lord, by your own power. We will play music and sing psalms to your virtues.</p>

</body>
</html>