<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 56</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 56</h2>

<p><a id="c56_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. May you not destroy. Of David, with the inscription of a title, when he fled from Saul into a cave.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me. For my soul trusts in you. And I will hope in the shadow of your wings, until iniquity passes away.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will cry out to God Most High, to God who has been kind to me.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He sent from heaven and freed me. He has surrendered into disgrace those who trampled me. God has sent his mercy and his truth.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he has rescued my soul from the midst of the young lions. I slept troubled. The sons of men: their teeth are weapons and arrows, and their tongue is a sharp sword.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Be exalted above the heavens, O God, and your glory above all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They prepared a snare for my feet, and they bowed down my soul. They dug a pit before my face, yet they have fallen into it.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> My heart is prepared, O God, my heart is prepared. I will sing, and I will compose a psalm.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Rise up, my glory. Rise up, psaltery and harp. I will arise in early morning.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I will confess to you, O Lord, among the peoples. I will compose a psalm to you among the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For your mercy has been magnified, even to the heavens, and your truth, even to the clouds.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Be exalted above the heavens, O God, and your glory above all the earth.</p>

</body>
</html>