<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David. Exult in the Lord, you just ones; together praise the upright.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Confess to the Lord with stringed instruments; sing psalms to him with the psaltery, the instrument of ten strings.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Sing to him a new song. Sing psalms to him skillfully, with loud exclamation.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the word of the Lord is upright, and all his works are in faith.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He loves mercy and judgment. The earth is full of the mercy of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> By the word of the Lord, the heavens were established, and all their power, by the Spirit of his mouth:</p>

<p><a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> gathering together the waters of the sea, as if in a container, placing the depths in storage.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let all the earth fear the Lord, and may all the inhabitants of the world quake before him.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he spoke, and they became. He commanded, and they were created.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The Lord scatters the counsels of the nations. Moreover, he reproves the thoughts of the people, and he rejects the counsels of the leaders.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the counsel of the Lord remains for eternity, the thoughts of his heart from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people whom he has chosen as his inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The Lord has looked down from heaven. He has seen all the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> From his well-prepared dwelling place, he has gazed upon all who dwell on the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He has formed the hearts of each one of them; he understands all their works.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The king is not saved by great power, nor will the giant be saved by his many powers.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The horse is false safety; for he will not be saved by the abundance of his powers.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold, the eyes of the Lord are on those who fear him and on those who hope in his mercy,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> so as to rescue their souls from death and to feed them during famine.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Our soul remains with the Lord. For he is our helper and protector.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For in him, our heart will rejoice, and in his holy name, we have hoped.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Let your mercy be upon us, O Lord, just as we have hoped in you.</p>

</body>
</html>