<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 76</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 76</h2>

<p><a id="c76_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. For Jeduthun. A Psalm of Asaph.</p>

<p><a id="c76_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I cried out to the Lord with my voice, to God with my voice, and he attended to me.</p>

<p><a id="c76_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In the days of my tribulation, I sought God, with my hands opposite him in the night, and I was not deceived. My soul refused to be consoled.</p>

<p><a id="c76_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I was mindful of God, and I was delighted, and I was distressed, and my spirit fell away.</p>

<p><a id="c76_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My eyes anticipated the vigils. I was disturbed, and I did not speak.</p>

<p><a id="c76_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I considered the days of antiquity, and I held the years of eternity in my mind.</p>

<p><a id="c76_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I meditated in the night with my heart, and I was distressed, and I examined my spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c76_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> So then, will God reject for eternity? Will he not continue to allow himself to show favor?</p>

<p><a id="c76_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Or, will he cut off his mercy in the end, from generation to generation?</p>

<p><a id="c76_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And would God ever forget to be merciful? Or, would he, in his wrath, restrict his mercies?</p>

<p><a id="c76_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I said, "Now I have begun. This change is from the right hand of the Most High."</p>

<p><a id="c76_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I was mindful of the works of the Lord. For I will be mindful from the beginning of your wonders,</p>

<p><a id="c76_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and I will meditate on all your works. And I will take part in your intentions.</p>

<p><a id="c76_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Your way, O God, is in what is holy. Which God is great like our God?</p>

<p><a id="c76_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You are the God who performs miracles. You have made your virtue known among the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c76_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> With your arm, you have redeemed your people, the sons of Jacob and of Joseph.</p>

<p><a id="c76_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The waters saw you, O God, the waters saw you, and they were afraid, and the depths were stirred up.</p>

<p><a id="c76_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Great was the sound of the waters. The clouds uttered a voice. For your arrows also pass by.</p>

<p><a id="c76_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The voice of your thunder is like a wheel. Your flashes have illuminated the whole world. The earth has quaked and trembled.</p>

<p><a id="c76_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Your way is through the sea, and your paths are through many waters. And your traces will not be known.</p>

<p><a id="c76_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You have conducted your people like sheep, by the hand of Moses and Aaron.</p>

</body>
</html>