<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 50</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 50</h2>

<p><a id="c50_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Psalm of David,</p>

<p><a id="c50_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> when Nathan the prophet came to him, after he went to Bathsheba.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Be merciful to me, O God, according to your great mercy. And, according to the plentitude of your compassion, wipe out my iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Wash me once again from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For I know my iniquity, and my sin is ever before me.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Against you only have I sinned, and I have done evil before your eyes. And so, you are justified in your words, and you will prevail when you give judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For behold, I was conceived in iniquities, and in sinfulness did my mother conceive me.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For behold, you have loved truth. The obscure and hidden things of your wisdom, you have manifested to me.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You will sprinkle me with hyssop, and I will be cleansed. You will wash me, and I will be made whiter than snow.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In my hearing, you will grant gladness and rejoicing. And the bones that have been humbled will exult.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Turn your face away from my sins, and erase all my iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Create a clean heart in me, O God. And renew an upright spirit within my inmost being.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Do not cast me away from your face; and do not take your Holy Spirit from me.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and confirm me with an unsurpassed spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will teach the unjust your ways, and the impious will be converted to you.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Free me from blood, O God, the God of my salvation, and my tongue will extol your justice.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> O Lord, you will open my lips, and my mouth will announce your praise.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For if you had desired sacrifice, I would certainly have given it, but with holocausts, you will not be delighted.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A crushed spirit is a sacrifice to God. A contrite and humbled heart, O God, you will not spurn.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Act kindly, Lord, in your good will toward Zion, so that the walls of Jerusalem may be built up.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then you will accept the sacrifice of justice, oblations, and holocausts. Then they will lay calves upon your altar.</p>

</body>
</html>