<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David himself. To you, Lord, I will cry out. My God, do not be silent toward me. For if you remain silent toward me, I will become like those who descend into the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, O Lord, the voice of my supplication, when I pray to you, when I lift up my hands toward your holy temple.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do not draw me away together with sinners; and let me not perish with those who work iniquity, who speak peacefully to their neighbor, yet evils are in their hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Give to them according to their works and according to the wickedness of their inventions. Assign to them according to the works of their hands. Repay them with their own retribution.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Since they have not understood the works of the Lord and the works of his hands, you will destroy them, and you will not build them up.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Blessed is the Lord, for he has heard the voice of my supplication.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The Lord is my helper and my protector. In him, my heart has hoped and I have been helped. And my flesh has flourished again. And from my will, I shall confess to him.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Lord is the strength of his people and the protector of the salvation of his Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O Lord, save your people and bless your inheritance, and reign over them and exalt them, even unto eternity.</p>

</body>
</html>