<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. For the secrets of the Son. A Psalm of David.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will confess to you, Lord, with my whole heart. I will recount all your wonders.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will rejoice and exult in you. I will sing a psalm to your name, O Most High.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For my enemy will be turned back. They will be weakened and perish before your face.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For you have accomplished my judgment and my cause. You have sat upon the throne that judges justice.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You have rebuked the Gentiles, and the impious one has perished. You have deleted their name in eternity and for all generations.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The spears of the enemy have failed in the end, and their cities, you have destroyed. Their memory has perished with a loud noise.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But the Lord remains in eternity. He has prepared his throne in judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he will judge the whole world in equity. He will judge the people in justice.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the Lord has become a refuge for the poor, a helper in opportunity, in tribulation.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And may they hope in you, who know your name. For you have not abandoned those seeking you, Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Sing a psalm to the Lord, who dwells in Zion. Announce his study among the Gentiles.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Because of those who yearned for their blood, he has remembered them. He has not forgotten the cry of the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Have mercy on me, Lord. See my humiliation from my enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You lift me up from the gates of death, so that I may announce all your praises at the gates of the daughter of Zion.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will exult in your salvation. The Gentiles have become trapped in the ruin that they made. Their foot has been caught in the same snare that they themselves had hidden.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The Lord will be recognized when making judgments. The sinner has been caught in the works of his own hands.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The sinners will be turned into Hell: all the Gentiles who have forgotten God.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For the poor will not be forgotten in the end. The patience of the poor will not perish in the end.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Rise up, Lord: do not let man be strengthened. Let the Gentiles be judged in your sight.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> O Lord, establish a lawgiver over them, so that the Gentiles may know that they are only men.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So then, why, O Lord, have you withdrawn far away? Why have you overlooked us in opportunity, in tribulation?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> While the impious is arrogant, the poor is enflamed. They are held by the counsels that they devise.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For the sinner is praised by the desires of his soul, and the iniquitous is blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The sinner has provoked the Lord; according to the multitude of his wrath, he will not seek him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> God is not before his sight. His ways are stained at all times. Your judgments are removed from his face. He will be master of all his enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For he has said in his heart, "I will not be disturbed: from generation to generation without evil."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> His mouth is full of curses, and bitterness, and deceit. Under his tongue are hardship and sorrow.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He sits in ambush, with resources in hidden places, so that he may execute the innocent.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> His eyes catch sight of the poor. He lies in ambush, in hiding like a lion in his den. He lies in ambush, so that he may seize the poor, to seize the poor as he draws him in.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> With his snare, he will bring him down. He will crouch down and pounce, when he has power over the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For he has said in his heart, "God has forgotten, he has turned away his face, lest he see to the end."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> O Lord God, rise up. Let your hand be exalted. Do not forget the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> How has the impious one provoked God? For he has said in his heart, "He will not inquire."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> You do see, for you examine hardship and sorrow, so that you may deliver them into your hands. The poor one has been abandoned to you. You will be a helper to the orphan.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Break the arm of the sinner and the malicious. His sin will be sought, and it will not be found.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> The Lord shall reign in eternity, even forever and ever. You will perish the Gentiles from his land.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> The Lord has heeded the desire of the poor. Your ear has listened to the preparation of their heart,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> so as to judge for the orphan and the humble, so that man may no longer presume to magnify himself upon the earth.</p>

</body>
</html>