<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To David, when he changed his appearance in the sight of Abimelech, and so he dismissed him, and he went away.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise will be ever in my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In the Lord, my soul will be praised. May the meek listen and rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Magnify the Lord with me, and let us extol his name in itself.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I sought the Lord, and he heeded me, and he carried me away from all my tribulations.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Approach him and be enlightened, and your faces will not be confounded.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> This poor one cried out, and the Lord heeded him, and he saved him from all his tribulations.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Angel of the Lord will encamp around those who fear him, and he will rescue them.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Taste and see that the Lord is sweet. Blessed is the man who hopes in him.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Fear the Lord, all you his saints. For there is no destitution for those who fear him.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The rich have been needy and hungry, but those who seek the Lord will not be deprived of any good thing.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Come forward, sons. Listen to me. I will teach you the fear of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Which is the man who wills life, who chooses to see good days?</p>

<p><a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Prohibit your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Turn away from evil, and do good. Inquire about peace, and pursue it.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The eyes of the Lord are on the just, and his ears are with their prayers.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But the countenance of the Lord is upon those who do evil, to perish the remembrance of them from the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The just cried out, and the Lord heard them, and he freed them from all their tribulations.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The Lord is near to those who are troubled in heart, and he will save the humble in spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Many are the afflictions of the just, but from them all the Lord will free them.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The Lord preserves all of their bones, not one of them shall be broken.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The death of a sinner is very harmful, and those who hate the just will fare badly.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The Lord will redeem the souls of his servants, and none of those who hope in him will fare badly.</p>

</body>
</html>