<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 105</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 105</h2>

<p><a id="c105_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Alleluia. Confess to the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy is with every generation.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who will declare the powers of the Lord? Who make a hearing for all his praises?</p>

<p><a id="c105_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Blessed are those who keep judgment and who do justice at all times.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Remember us, O Lord, with good will for your people. Visit us with your salvation,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> so that we may see the goodness of your elect, so that we may rejoice in the joy of your nation, so that you may be praised along with your inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> We have sinned, as have our fathers. We have acted unjustly; we have wrought iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Our fathers did not understand your miracles in Egypt. They did not remember the multitude of your mercies. And they provoked you, while going up to the sea, even the Red Sea.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he saved them for the sake of his name, so that he might make known his power.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he rebuked the Red Sea, and it dried up. And he led them into the abyss, as if into a desert.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he saved them from the hand of those who hated them. And he redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the water covered those who troubled them. Not one of them remained.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they believed his words, and they sang his praises.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As soon as they had finished, they forgot his works, and they would not endure his counsel.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they coveted their desire in the desert, and they tempted God in a waterless place.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he granted to them their request, and he sent abundance into their souls.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they provoked Moses in the camp, and Aaron, the holy one of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The earth opened and swallowed Dathan, and it covered the congregation of Abiram.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And a fire broke out in their congregation. A flame burned up the sinners.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they fashioned a calf at Horeb, and they adored a graven image.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they exchanged their glory for the likeness of a calf that eats hay.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They forgot God, who saved them, who did great things in Egypt:</p>

<p><a id="c105_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> miracles in the land of Ham, terrible things at the Red Sea.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he said that he would destroy them, yet Moses, his elect, stood firm before him in the breach, in order to avert his wrath, lest he destroy them.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they held the desirable land to be nothing. They did not trust in his word.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they murmured in their tabernacles. They did not heed the voice of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he lifted up his hand over them, in order to prostrate them in the desert,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and in order to cast their offspring among the nations, and to scatter them among the regions.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they were initiated into Baal of Peor, and they ate the sacrifices of the dead.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they provoked him with their inventions, and ruination was multiplied in them.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then Phinehas stood up and placated him: and so the violent disturbance ceased.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And it was reputed to him unto justice, from generation to generation, even forever.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they provoked him at the Waters of Contradiction, and Moses was afflicted because of them,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> for they exasperated his spirit. And so he divided them with his lips.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> They did not destroy the nations, about which the Lord had spoken to them.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they were mixed among the Gentiles. And they learned their works,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and they served their graven images, and it became a scandal to them.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And they shed innocent blood: the blood of their sons and of their daughters, which they sacrificed to the graven images of Canaan. And the land was infected with bloodshed,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and was contaminated with their works. And they fornicated according to their own inventions.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the Lord became furiously angry with his people, and he abhorred his inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And he delivered them into the hands of the nations. And those who hated them became rulers over them.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And their enemies afflicted them, and they were humbled under their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Many times, he delivered them. Yet they provoked him with their counsel, and they were brought low by their iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he saw that they were in tribulation, and he heard their prayer.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And he was mindful of his covenant, and he repented according to the multitude of his mercies.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And he provided for them with mercies, in the sight of all those who had seized them.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Save us, O Lord our God, and gather us from the nations, so that we may confess your holy name and glory in your praise.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, from ages past, even to all ages. And let all the people say: Amen. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>