<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. For her who pursues the inheritance. A Psalm of David.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O Lord, listen closely to my words. Understand my outcry.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Attend to the voice of my prayer, my King and my God.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For to you, I will pray. In the morning, Lord, you will hear my voice.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In the morning, I will stand before you, and I will see. For you are not a God who wills iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the malicious will not dwell close to you, nor will the unjust endure before your eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You hate all who work iniquity. You will destroy all who speak a lie. The bloody and deceitful man, the Lord will abominate.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But I am in the multitude of your mercy. I will enter your house. I will show adoration toward your holy temple, in your fear.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Lord, lead me in your justice. Because of my enemies, direct my way in your sight.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For there is no truth in their mouth: their heart is vain.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Their throat is an open sepulcher. They have acted deceitfully with their tongues. Judge them, O God. Let them fall by their own intentions: according to the multitude of their impiety, expel them. For they have provoked you, O Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But let all those who hope in you rejoice. They will exult in eternity, and you will dwell in them. And all those who love your name will glory in you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For you will bless the just. You have crowned us, O Lord, as if with a shield of your good will.</p>

</body>
</html>