<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Psalm of David.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The heavens describe the glory of God, and the firmament announces the work of his hands.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Day proclaims the word to day, and night to night imparts knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> There are no speeches or conversations, where their voices are not being heard.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Their sound has gone forth through all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He has placed his tabernacle in the sun, and he is like a bridegroom coming out of his bedroom. He has exulted like a giant running along the way;</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> his departure is from the summit of heaven. And his course reaches all the way to its summit. Neither is there anyone who can hide himself from his heat.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The law of the Lord is immaculate, converting souls. The testimony of the Lord is faithful, providing wisdom to little ones.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The justice of the Lord is right, rejoicing hearts. The precepts of the Lord are brilliant, enlightening the eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The fear of the Lord is holy, enduring for all generations. The judgments of the Lord are true, justified in themselves:</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> desirable beyond gold and many precious stones, and sweeter than honey and the honeycomb.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For, indeed, your servant keeps them, and in keeping them, there are many rewards.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who can understand transgression? From my hidden faults, cleanse me, O Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and from those of others, spare your servant. If they will have no dominion over me, then I will be immaculate, and I will be cleansed from the greatest transgression.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the eloquence of my mouth will be so as to please, along with the meditation of my heart, in your sight, forever, O Lord, my helper and my redeemer.</p>

</body>
</html>