<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 40</h2>

<p><a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Psalm of David himself.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Blessed is he who shows understanding toward the needy and the poor. The Lord will deliver him in the evil day.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> May the Lord preserve him and give him life, and make him blessed upon the earth. And may he not hand him over to the will of his adversaries.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> May the Lord bring him help on his bed of sorrow. In his infirmity, you have changed his entire covering.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I said, "O Lord, be merciful to me. Heal my soul, because I have sinned against you."</p>

<p><a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My enemies have spoken evils against me. When will he die and his name perish?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when he came in to see me, he was speaking emptiness. His heart gathered iniquity to itself. He went outside, and he was speaking in the same way.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All my enemies were whispering against me. They were thinking up evils against me.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They established an unjust word against me. Will he that sleeps no longer rise again?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For even the man of my peace, in whom I hoped, who ate my bread, has greatly supplanted me.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But you, O Lord, have mercy on me, and raise me up again. And I will requite them.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> By this, I knew that you preferred me: because my adversary will not rejoice over me.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But you have sustained me, because of my innocence, and you have confirmed me in your sight in eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, for all generations and even forever. Amen. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>