<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 57</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 57</h2>

<p><a id="c57_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. May you not destroy. Of David, with the inscription of a title.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> If, truly and certainly, you speak justice, then judge what is right, you sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For, even in your heart, you work iniquity. Your hands construct injustice on the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Sinners have become foreigners from the womb; they have gone astray from conception. They have been speaking falsehoods.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Their fury is similar to that of a serpent; it is like a deaf asp, who even blocks her ears,</p>

<p><a id="c57_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> who will not listen to the voice of charmers, nor even to the enchanter who chants wisely.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> God will crush their teeth within their own mouth. The Lord will break the molars of the lions.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They will come to nothing, like water flowing away. He has aimed his bow, while they are being weakened.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Like wax that flows, they will be carried away. Fire has fallen upon them, and they will not see the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Before your thorns could know the brier, he consumes them alive, as if in rage.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The just one will rejoice when he sees vindication. He will wash his hands in the blood of the sinner.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And man will say, "If the just one is fruitful, then, truly, there is a God judging them on earth."</p>

</body>
</html>