<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 37</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 37</h2>

<p><a id="c37_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David, in commemoration of the Sabbath.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O Lord, do not rebuke me in your fury, nor chastise me in your wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For your arrows have been driven into me, and your hand has been confirmed over me.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> There is no health in my flesh before the face of your wrath. There is no peace for my bones before the face of my sins.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For my iniquities have walked over my head, and they have been like a heavy burden weighing upon me.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My sores have putrefied and been corrupted before the face of my foolishness.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I have become miserable, and I have been bent down, even to the end. I have walked with contrition all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For my loins have been filled with illusions, and there is no health in my flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I have been afflicted and greatly humbled. I bellowed from the groaning of my heart.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> O Lord, all my desire is before you, and my groaning before you has not been hidden.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My heart has been disturbed. My strength has abandoned me, and the light of my eyes has abandoned me, and it is not with me.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My friends and my neighbors have drawn near and stood against me. And those who were next to me stood far apart. And those who sought my soul used violence.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And those who sought evil accusations against me were speaking emptiness. And they practiced deceitfulness all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But, like someone deaf, I did not hear. And I was like someone mute, not opening his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I became like a man who does not hear, and who has no reproofs in his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For in you, Lord, I have hoped. You will listen to me, O Lord my God.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For I said, "Lest at any time, my enemies might rejoice over me," and, "While my feet are being shaken, they have spoken great things against me."</p>

<p><a id="c37_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I have been prepared for scourges, and my sorrow is ever before me.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For I will announce my iniquity, and I will think about my sin.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But my enemies live, and they have been stronger than me. And those who have wrongfully hated me have been multiplied.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Those who render evil for good have dragged me down, because I followed goodness.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Do not forsake me, O Lord my God. Do not depart from me.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Be attentive to my help, O Lord, the God of my salvation.</p>

</body>
</html>