<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Psalm of David. Judge me, Lord, for I have been walking in my innocence, and by hoping in the Lord, I will not be weakened.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Examine me, Lord, and test me: enkindle my temperament and my heart.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For your mercy is before my eyes, and I am serene in your truth.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I have not sat with the council of emptiness, and I will not enter with those who carry out injustice.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I have hated the assembly of the malicious; and I will not sit with the impious.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I will wash my hands among the innocent, and I will surround your altar, O Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> so that I may hear the voice of your praise and describe all your wonders.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O Lord, I have loved the beauty of your house and the dwelling place of your glory.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O God, do not let my soul perish with the impious, nor my life with the men of blood,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> in whose hands are iniquities: their right hand has been filled by bribes.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But as for me, I have been walking in my innocence. Redeem me, and have mercy on me.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My foot has stood firm in the straight path. In the churches, I will bless you, O Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>