<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 91</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 91</h2>

<p><a id="c91_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Canticle Psalm. On the day of the Sabbath.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It is good to confess to the Lord and to sing psalms to your name, O Most High:</p>

<p><a id="c91_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> to announce your mercy in the morning, and your truth throughout the night,</p>

<p><a id="c91_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> upon the ten strings, upon the psaltery, with a canticle, upon stringed instruments.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For you, O Lord, have delighted me with your doings, and I will exult in the works of your hands.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> How great are your works, O Lord! Your thoughts have been made exceedingly deep.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A foolish man will not know these things, and a senseless one will not understand:</p>

<p><a id="c91_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> when sinners will have risen up like grass, and when all those who work iniquity will have appeared, that they shall pass away, age after age.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But you, O Lord, are the Most High for all eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For behold your enemies, O Lord, for behold your enemies will perish, and all those who work iniquity will be dispersed.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And my horn will be exalted like that of the single-horned beast, and my old age will be exalted in fruitful mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And my eye has looked down upon my enemies, and my ear will hear of the malignant rising up against me.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The just one will flourish like the palm tree. He will be multiplied like the cedar of Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Those planted in the house of the Lord will flourish in the courts of the house of our God.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They will still be multiplied in a fruitful old age, and they will endure well,</p>

<p><a id="c91_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> so that they may announce that the Lord our God is righteous and that there is no iniquity in him.</p>

</body>
</html>