<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 131</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 131</h2>

<p><a id="c131_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Canticle in steps. O Lord, remember David and all his meekness,</p>

<p><a id="c131_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> how he swore to the Lord, how he made a vow to the God of Jacob:</p>

<p><a id="c131_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I shall not enter into the tabernacle of my house, nor climb into the bed where I lie down;</p>

<p><a id="c131_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I shall not give sleep to my eyes, nor slumber to my eyelids</p>

<p><a id="c131_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and rest to my temples, until I find a place for the Lord, a tabernacle for the God of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c131_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, we heard of it in Ephrathah. We discovered it in the fields of the forest.</p>

<p><a id="c131_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> We will enter into his tabernacle. We will adore in the place where his feet stood.</p>

<p><a id="c131_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Rise up, O Lord, into your resting place. You and the ark of your sanctification.</p>

<p><a id="c131_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let your priests be clothed with justice, and let your saints exult.</p>

<p><a id="c131_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the sake of your servant David, do not turn away the face of your Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c131_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The Lord has sworn the truth to David, and he will not disappoint: I will set upon your throne from the fruit of your lineage.</p>

<p><a id="c131_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If your sons will keep my covenant and these, my testimonies, which I will teach to them, then their sons will sit upon your throne even forever.</p>

<p><a id="c131_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For the Lord has chosen Zion. He has chosen it as his dwelling place.</p>

<p><a id="c131_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> This is my resting place, forever and ever. Here I will dwell, for I have chosen it.</p>

<p><a id="c131_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> When blessing, I will bless her widow. I will satisfy her poor with bread.</p>

<p><a id="c131_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will clothe her priests with salvation, and her saints will rejoice with great joy.</p>

<p><a id="c131_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There, I will produce a horn to David. There, I have prepared a lamp for my Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c131_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will clothe his enemies with confusion. But my sanctification will flourish over him.</p>

</body>
</html>