<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 45</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 45</h2>

<p><a id="c45_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. To the sons of Korah, for confidants. A Psalm.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Our God is our refuge and strength, a helper in the tribulations that have greatly overwhelmed us.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Because of this, we will not be afraid when the earth will be turbulent and the mountains will be transferred into the heart of the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They thundered, and the waters were stirred up among them; the mountains have been disturbed by his strength.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The frenzy of the river rejoices the city of God. The Most High has sanctified his tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> God is in its midst; it will not be shaken. God will assist it in the early morning.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The peoples have been disturbed, and the kingdoms have been bowed down. He uttered his voice: the earth has been moved.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our supporter.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Draw near and behold the works of the Lord: what portents he has set upon the earth,</p>

<p><a id="c45_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> carrying away wars even to the end of the earth. He will crush the bow and break the weapons, and he will burn the shield with fire.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be empty, and see that I am God. I will be exalted among the peoples, and I will be exalted upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our supporter.</p>

</body>
</html>