<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 89</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 89</h2>

<p><a id="c89_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A prayer of Moses, the man of God. O Lord, you have been our refuge from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Before the mountains became, or the land was formed along with the world: from ages past, even to all ages, you are God.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And, lest man be turned aside in humiliation, you have said: Be converted, O sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For a thousand years before your eyes are like the days of yesterday, which have passed by, and they are like a watch of the night,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> which was held for nothing: so their years shall be.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In the morning, he may pass away like grass; in the morning, he may flower and pass away. In the evening, he will fall, and harden, and become dry.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For, at your wrath, we have withered away, and we have been disturbed by your fury.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You have placed our iniquities in your sight, our age in the illumination of your countenance.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For all our days have faded away, and at your wrath, we have fainted. Our years will be considered to be like a spider's web.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The days of our years in them are seventy years. But in the powerful, they are eighty years, and more of these are with hardship and sorrow. For mildness has overwhelmed us, and we shall be corrected.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who knows the power of your wrath? And, before fear, can your wrath</p>

<p><a id="c89_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> be numbered? So make known your right hand, along with men learned in heart, in wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Return, O Lord, how long? And may you be persuaded on behalf of your servants.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> We were filled in the morning with your mercy, and we exulted and delighted all our days.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> We have been rejoicing, because of the days in which you humbled us, because of the years in which we saw evils.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Look down upon your servants and upon their works, and direct their sons.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And may the splendor of the Lord our God be upon us. And so, direct the works of our hands over us; direct even the work of our hands.</p>

</body>
</html>