<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Psalm of David. The fool has said in his heart, "There is no God." They were corrupted, and they have become abominable in their studies. There is no one who does good; there is not even one.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The Lord has looked down from heaven upon the sons of men, to see if there were any who were considering or seeking God.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They have all gone astray; together they have become useless. There is no one who does good; there is not even one.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their throat is an open sepulcher. With their tongues, they have been acting deceitfully; the venom of asps is under their lips. Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Their feet are swift to shed blood. Grief and unhappiness are in their ways; and the way of peace, they have not known.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> There is no fear of God before their eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Will they never learn: all those who work iniquity, who devour my people like a meal of bread?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They have not called upon the Lord. There, they have trembled in fear, where there was no fear.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For the Lord is with the just generation. You have confounded the counsel of the needy because the Lord is his hope.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who will grant the salvation of Israel from Zion? When the Lord turns away the captivity of his people, Jacob will exult, and Israel will rejoice.</p>

</body>
</html>