<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 83</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 83</h2>

<p><a id="c83_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. For the wine and oil presses. A Psalm to the sons of Korah.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How beloved are your tabernacles, O Lord of hosts!</p>

<p><a id="c83_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My soul longs and faints for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh have exulted in the living God.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For even the sparrow has found a home for himself, and the turtle-dove a nest for herself, where she may lay her young: your altars, O Lord of hosts, my king and my God.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Blessed are those who dwell in your house, O Lord. They will praise you from age to age.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Blessed is the man whose help is from you. In his heart, he is disposed to ascend</p>

<p><a id="c83_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> from the valley of tears, from the place which he has determined.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For even the lawgiver will provide a blessing; they will go from virtue to virtue. The God of gods will be seen in Zion.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O Lord, God of hosts, hear my prayer. Pay attention, O God of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> O God, gaze upon our protector, and look upon the face of your Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For one day in your courts is better than thousands elsewhere. I have chosen to be lowly in the house of my God, rather than to dwell in the tabernacles of sinners.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For God loves mercy and truth. The Lord will give grace and glory.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He will not withhold good things from those who walk in innocence. O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man who hopes in you.</p>

</body>
</html>