<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 87</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 87</h2>

<p><a id="c87_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Canticle Psalm to the sons of Korah. Unto the end. For Mahalath, to answer the understanding of Heman the Ezrahite.</p>

<p><a id="c87_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O Lord, God of my salvation: I have cried out, day and night, in your presence.</p>

<p><a id="c87_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let my prayer enter in your sight. Incline your ear to my petition.</p>

<p><a id="c87_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For my soul has been filled with evils, and my life has drawn near to Hell.</p>

<p><a id="c87_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I am considered to be among those who will descend into the pit. I have become like a man without assistance,</p>

<p><a id="c87_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> idle among the dead. I am like the wounded sleeping in sepulchers, whom you no longer remember, and who have been repelled by your hand.</p>

<p><a id="c87_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They have lain me in the lower pit: in dark places and in the shadow of death.</p>

<p><a id="c87_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Your fury has been confirmed over me. And you have brought all your waves upon me.</p>

<p><a id="c87_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You have sent my acquaintances far from me. They have set me as an abomination to themselves. I was handed over, yet I did not depart.</p>

<p><a id="c87_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My eyes languished before destitution. All day long, I cried out to you, O Lord. I stretched out my hands to you.</p>

<p><a id="c87_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Will you perform wonders for the dead? Or will physicians raise to life, and so confess to you?</p>

<p><a id="c87_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Could anyone declare your mercy in the sepulcher, or your truth from within perdition?</p>

<p><a id="c87_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Will your wonders be known in the darkness, or your justice in the land of oblivion?</p>

<p><a id="c87_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I have cried out to you, O Lord, and in early morning, my prayer will come before you.</p>

<p><a id="c87_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Lord, why do you reject my prayer? Why do you turn your face away from me?</p>

<p><a id="c87_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I am poor, and I have been amid hardships from my youth. And, though I have been exalted, I am humbled and disturbed.</p>

<p><a id="c87_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Your wrath has crossed into me, and your terrors have disturbed me.</p>

<p><a id="c87_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They have surrounded me like water, all day long. They have surrounded me, all at once.</p>

<p><a id="c87_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Friend and neighbor, and my acquaintances, you have sent far away from me, away from misery.</p>

</body>
</html>