<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 101</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 101</h2>

<p><a id="c101_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The prayer of the pauper, when he was anxious, and so he poured out his petition in the sight of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O Lord, hear my prayer, and let my outcry reach you.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do not turn your face away from me. In whatever day that I am in trouble, incline your ear to me. In whatever day that I will call upon you, heed me quickly.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For my days have faded away like smoke, and my bones have dried out like firewood.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I have been cut down like hay, and my heart has withered, for I had forgotten to eat my bread.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Before the voice of my groaning, my bone has adhered to my flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I have become like a pelican in solitude. I have become like a night raven in a house.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I have kept vigil, and I have become like a solitary sparrow on a roof.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All day long my enemies reproached me, and those who praised me swore oaths against me.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For I chewed on ashes like bread, and I mixed weeping into my drink.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> By the face of your anger and indignation, you lifted me up and threw me down.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My days have declined like a shadow, and I have dried out like hay.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But you, O Lord, endure for eternity, and your memorial is from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You will rise up and take pity on Zion, for it is time for its mercy, for the time has come.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For its stones have pleased your servants, and they will take pity on its land.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the Gentiles will fear your name, O Lord, and all the kings of the earth your glory.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the Lord has built up Zion, and he will be seen in his glory.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He has noticed of the prayer of the humble, and he has not despised their petition.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Let these things be written in another generation, and the people who will be created will praise the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For he has gazed from his high sanctuary. From heaven, the Lord has beheld the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> So may he hear the groans of those in shackles, in order that he may release the sons of the slain.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So may they announce the name of the Lord in Zion and his praise in Jerusalem:</p>

<p><a id="c101_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> while the people convene, along with kings, in order that they may serve the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He responded to him in the way of his virtue: Declare to me the brevity of my days.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Do not call me back in the middle of my days: your years are from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> In the beginning, O Lord, you founded the earth. And the heavens are the work of your hands.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They will perish, but you remain. And all will grow old like a garment. And, like a blanket, you will change them, and they will be changed.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Yet you are ever yourself, and your years will not decline.</p>

<p><a id="c101_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The sons of your servants will live, and their offspring will be guided aright in every age.</p>

</body>
</html>