<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 63</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 63</h2>

<p><a id="c63_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Psalm of David.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, O God, my prayer of supplication. Rescue my soul from the fear of the enemy.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You have protected me from the assembly of the malignant, from a multitude of workers of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For they have sharpened their tongues like a sword; they have formed their bow into a bitter thing,</p>

<p><a id="c63_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> so that they may shoot arrows from hiding at the immaculate.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They will suddenly shoot arrows at him, and they will not be afraid. They are resolute in their wicked talk. They have discussed hidden snares. They have said, "Who will see them?"</p>

<p><a id="c63_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They have been searching carefully for iniquities. Their exhaustive search has failed. Man will approach with a deep heart,</p>

<p><a id="c63_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and God will be exalted. The arrows of the little ones have become their wounds,</p>

<p><a id="c63_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and their tongues have been weakened against them. All those who saw them have been troubled;</p>

<p><a id="c63_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and every man was afraid. And they announced the works of God, and they understood his acts.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The just will rejoice in the Lord, and they will hope in him. And all the upright of heart will be praised.</p>

</body>
</html>