<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 67</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 67</h2>

<p><a id="c67_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Canticle Psalm of David himself.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> May God rise up, and may his enemies be scattered, and may those who hate him flee from before his face.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Just as smoke vanishes, so may they vanish. Just as wax flows away before the face of fire, so may sinners pass away before the face of God.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And so, let the just feast, and let them exult in the sight of God and be delighted in gladness.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Sing to God, sing a psalm to his name. Make a path for him, who ascends over the west. The Lord is his name. Exult in his sight; they will be stirred up before his face,</p>

<p><a id="c67_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> the father of orphans and the judge of widows. God is in his holy place.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> It is God who makes men dwell in a house under one custom. He leads out those who are strongly bound, and similarly, those who exasperate, who dwell in sepulchers.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O God, when you departed in the sight of your people, when you passed through the desert,</p>

<p><a id="c67_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> the earth was moved, for the heavens rained down before the face of the God of Sinai, before the face of the God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You will set aside for your inheritance, O God, a willing rain. And though it was weak, truly, you have made it perfect.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Your animals will dwell in it. O God, in your sweetness, you have provided for the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The Lord will give the word to evangelizers, along with great virtue.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The King of virtue is beloved among the beloved. And the beauty of the house will divide spoils.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If you take your rest in the midst of the clergy, you will be like a dove whose wings are covered with fine silver and edged with pale gold.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> When heaven discerns kings to be over her, they will be whitened with the snows of Zalmon.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The mountain of God is a fat mountain, a dense mountain, a thick mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So then, why are you distrustful of dense mountains? The mountain on which God is well pleased to dwell, even there, the Lord will dwell until the end.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The chariot of God is ten thousand fold: thousands rejoice. The Lord is with them in Sinai, in the holy place.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> You have ascended on high; you have taken captivity captive. You have accepted gifts among men. For even those who do not believe dwell with the Lord God.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Blessed is the Lord, day after day. The God of our salvation will make our journey prosper for us.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Our God is the God who will bring about our salvation, and our Lord is the Lord who has brought an end to death.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So then, truly, God will break the heads of his enemies, the hairy skull of those who wander around in their offenses.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The Lord said: I will turn them away from Bashan, I will turn them into the depths of the sea,</p>

<p><a id="c67_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> so that your feet may be soaked in the blood of your enemies, so that the tongue of your dogs may be soaked with the same.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> O God, they have seen your arrival, the arrival of my God, of my king who is in a holy place.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The leaders went ahead, united with the singers of psalms, in the midst of girls playing on timbrels.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> In the churches, bless the Lord God from the fountains of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In that place, Benjamin is a youth in ecstasy of mind. The leaders of Judah are their governors: the leaders of Zebulun, the leaders of Naphtali.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Command by your virtue, O God. Confirm in this place, O God, what you have wrought in us.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Before your temple in Jerusalem, kings will offer gifts to you.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Rebuke the wild beasts of the reeds, a congregation of bulls with the cows of the people, for they seek to exclude those who have been tested like silver. Scatter the nations that are pleased by wars.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Ambassadors will come out of Egypt. Ethiopia will offer in advance her hands to God.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Sing to God, O kingdoms of the earth. Sing psalms to the Lord. Sing psalms to God.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He ascends, up to the heaven of the heavens, toward the east. Behold, he will utter his voice, the voice of virtue.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Give glory to God beyond Israel. His magnificence and his virtue is in the clouds.</p>

<p><a id="c67_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> God is wonderful in his saints. The God of Israel himself will give virtue and strength to his people. Blessed is God.</p>

</body>
</html>