<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 55</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 55</h2>

<p><a id="c55_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. For the people who have become far removed from the Sacred. Of David, with the inscription of a title, when the Philistines held him in Gath.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Have mercy on me, O God, because man has trampled over me. All day long, he has afflicted me by fighting against me.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My enemies have trampled over me all day long. For those who make war against me are many.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> From the height of the day, I will be afraid. But truly, I will hope in you.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In God, I will praise my words. In God, I have put my trust. I will not fear what flesh can do to me.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> All day long, they curse my words. All their intentions are for evil against me.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They will dwell and hide themselves. They will watch my heel, just as they waited for my soul;</p>

<p><a id="c55_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> because of this, nothing will save them. In your anger, you will crush the people.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O God, I have announced my life to you. You have placed my tears in your sight, and even in your promise.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then my enemies will be turned back. On whatever day that I call upon you, behold, I know that you are my God.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In God, I will praise the word. In the Lord, I will praise his speech. In God, I have hoped. I will not fear what man can do to me.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My vows to you, O God, are in me. I will repay them. Praises be to you.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For you have rescued my soul from death and my feet from slipping, so that I may be pleasing in the sight of God, in the light of the living.</p>

</body>
</html>