<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 38</h2>

<p><a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. For Jeduthun himself. A Canticle of David.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I said, "I will keep to my ways, so that I will not offend with my tongue." I posted a guard at my mouth, when a sinner took up a position against me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I was silenced and humbled, and I was quiet before good things, and my sorrow was renewed.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My heart grew hot within me, and, during my meditation, a fire would flare up.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I spoke with my tongue, "O Lord, make me know my end, and what the number of my days will be, so that I may know what is lacking to me."</p>

<p><a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, you have made my days measurable, and, before you, my substance is as nothing. Yet truly, all things are vanity: every living man.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So then, truly man passes by like an image; even so, he is disquieted in vain. He stores up, and he knows not for whom he will gather these things.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And now, what is it that awaits me? Is it not the Lord? And my substance is with you.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Rescue me from all my iniquities. You have handed me over as reproach to the foolish.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I was silenced, and I did not open my mouth, because it was you who acted.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Remove your scourges from me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I fall short at corrections from the strength of your hand. For you have chastised man for iniquity. And you have made his soul shrink away like a spider. Nevertheless, it is in vain that any man be disquieted.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O Lord, heed my prayer and my supplication. Pay attention to my tears. Do not be silent. For I am a newcomer with you, and a sojourner, just as all my fathers were.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Forgive me, so that I may be refreshed, before I will go forth and be no more.</p>

</body>
</html>