<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 61</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 61</h2>

<p><a id="c61_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. For Jeduthun. A Psalm of David.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Will my soul not be subject to God? For from him is my salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yes, he himself is my God and my salvation. He is my supporter; I will be moved no more.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> How is it that you rush against a man? Every one of you puts to death, as if you were pulling down a ruined wall, leaning over and falling apart.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So, truly, they intended to reject my price. I ran in thirst. They blessed with their mouth and cursed with their heart.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yet, truly, my soul will be subject to God. For from him is my patience.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For he is my God and my Savior. He is my helper; I will not be expelled.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In God is my salvation and my glory. He is the God of my help, and my hope is in God.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All peoples gathered together: trust in him. Pour out your hearts in his sight. God is our helper for eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So, truly, the sons of men are untrustworthy. The sons of men are liars in the scales, so that, by emptiness, they may deceive among themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Do not trust in iniquity, and do not desire plunder. If riches flow toward you, do not be willing to set your heart on them.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> God has spoken once. I have heard two things: that power belongs to God,</p>

<p><a id="c61_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and that mercy belongs to you, O Lord. For you will repay each one according to his works.</p>

</body>
</html>