<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 39</h2>

<p><a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. A Psalm of David himself.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have waited expectantly for the Lord, and he was attentive to me.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he heard my prayers and he led me out of the pit of misery and the quagmire. And he stationed my feet upon a rock, and he directed my steps.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he sent a new canticle into my mouth, a song to our God. Many will see, and they will fear; and they will hope in the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Blessed is the man whose hope is in the name of the Lord, and who has no respect for vanities and absurd falsehoods.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You have accomplished your many wonders, O Lord my God, and there is no one similar to you in your thoughts. I have announced and I have spoken: they are multiplied beyond number.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Sacrifice and oblation, you did not want. But you have perfected ears for me. Holocaust and sin offering, you did not require.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then I said, "Behold, I draw near." At the head of the book, it has been written of me:</p>

<p><a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> that I should do your will. My God, I have willed it. And your law is in the midst of my heart.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I have announced your justice in a great Church: behold, I will not restrain my lips. O Lord, you have known it.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I have not concealed your justice within my heart. I have spoken your truth and your salvation. I have not concealed your mercy and your truth from a great assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> O Lord, do not take your tender mercies far from me. Your mercy and your truth ever sustain me.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For evils without number have surrounded me. My iniquities have taken hold of me, and I was not able to see. They have been multiplied beyond the hairs of my head. And my heart has forsaken me.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Be pleased, O Lord, to rescue me. Look down, O Lord, to help me.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let them together be confounded and awed, who seek after my soul to steal it away. Let them be turned back and be in awe, who wish evils upon me.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let them bear their confusion all at once, who say to me, "Well, well."</p>

<p><a id="c39_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let all who seek you exult and rejoice over you. And let those who love your salvation always say, "May the Lord be magnified."</p>

<p><a id="c39_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But I am a beggar and poor. The Lord has been concerned about me. You are my helper and my protector. My God, do not delay.</p>

</body>
</html>