<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 113</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 113</h2>

<p><a id="c113_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Alleluia. At the departure of Israel from Egypt, the house of Jacob from a barbarous people:</p>

<p><a id="c113_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Judea was made his sanctuary; Israel was made his power.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The sea looked, and it fled. The Jordan was turned back again.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The mountains exulted like rams, and the hills like lambs among the sheep.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> What happened to you, O sea, so that you fled, and to you, O Jordan, so that you were turned back again?</p>

<p><a id="c113_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> What happened to you, O mountains, so that you exulted like rams, and to you, O hills, so that you exulted like lambs among the sheep?</p>

<p><a id="c113_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Before the face of the Lord, the earth was moved, before the face of the God of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He converted the rock into pools of water, and the cliff into fountains of waters.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Give glory to your mercy and your truth, lest the Gentiles should say, "Where is their God?"</p>

<p><a id="c113_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But our God is in heaven. All things whatsoever that he has willed, he has done.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the works of the hands of men.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They have mouths, and do not speak; they have eyes, and do not see.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They have ears, and do not hear; they have noses, and do not smell.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They have hands, and do not feel; they have feet, and do not walk. Neither will they cry out with their throat.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let those who make them become like them, along with all who trust in them.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The house of Israel has hoped in the Lord. He is their helper and their protector.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The house of Aaron has hoped in the Lord. He is their helper and their protector.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Those who fear the Lord have hoped in the Lord. He is their helper and their protector.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The Lord has been mindful of us, and he has blessed us. He has blessed the house of Israel. He has blessed the house of Aaron.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He has blessed all who fear the Lord, the small with the great.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> May the Lord add blessings upon you: upon you, and upon your sons.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Blessed are you by the Lord, who made heaven and earth.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The heaven of heaven is for the Lord, but the earth he has given to the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The dead will not praise you, Lord, and neither will all those who descend into Hell.</p>

<p><a id="c113_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But we who live will bless the Lord, from this time forward, and even forever.</p>

</body>
</html>