<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 88</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 88</h2>

<p><a id="c88_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The understanding of Ethan the Ezrahite.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will sing the mercies of the Lord in eternity. I will announce your truth with my mouth, from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For you have said: Mercy will be built in the heavens, unto eternity. Your truth will be prepared there.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I have set up a covenant with my elect. I have sworn to David my servant:</p>

<p><a id="c88_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I will prepare your offspring, even in eternity. And I will build up your throne, from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The heavens will confess your miracles, Lord, and also your truth, in the Church of the saints.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For who among the clouds is equal to the Lord? Who among the sons of God is like God?</p>

<p><a id="c88_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> God is glorified by the counsel of the saints. He is great and terrible above all those who are around him.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O Lord, God of hosts, who is like you? You are powerful, Lord, and your truth is all around you.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You rule over the power of the sea, and you even mitigate the movement of its waves.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You have humbled the arrogant one, like one who has been wounded. You have scattered your enemies with the arm of your strength.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yours are the heavens, and yours is the earth. You founded the whole world in all its fullness.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You created the north and the sea. Tabor and Hermon will exult in your name.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Your arm acts with power. Let your hand be strengthened, and let your right hand be exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Justice and judgment are the preparation of your throne. Mercy and truth will precede your face.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Blessed is the people that knows jubilation. They will walk in the light of your countenance, O Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c88_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and they will exult in your name all day long, and they will be exalted in your justice.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For you are the glory of their virtue, and in your goodness, our horn will be exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For our assumption is of the Lord, and it is of our king, the holy one of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then you spoke in a vision to your holy ones, and you said: I have stationed help with the powerful one, and I have exalted the elect one from my people.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I have found my servant David. I have anointed him with my holy oil.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For my hand will assist him, and my arm will fortify him.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The enemy will have no advantage over him, nor will the son of iniquity be positioned to harm him.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And I will cut down his enemies before his face. And those who hate him, I will turn to flight.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And my truth and my mercy will be with him. And his horn will be exalted in my name.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And I will place his hand on the sea and his right hand on the rivers.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He will invoke me: "You are my father, my God, and the support of my salvation."</p>

<p><a id="c88_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And I will make him the first-born, preeminent before the kings of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I will preserve my mercy for him eternally, and my covenant for him faithfully.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And I will set his offspring from generation to generation, and his throne like the days of heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But if his sons abandon my law, and if they do not walk in my judgments,</p>

<p><a id="c88_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> if they profane my justices, and if they do not keep my commandments:</p>

<p><a id="c88_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> I will visit their iniquities with a rod, and their sins with a beating.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But I will not scatter my mercy from him, and I will not do harm to my truth.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And I will not profane my covenant, and I will not make void that which proceeds from my lips.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> I have sworn by my holiness one time: I will not lie to David,</p>

<p><a id="c88_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> his offspring will remain for eternity. And his throne will be like the sun in my sight,</p>

<p><a id="c88_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and, like the moon, it is perfected in eternity, and it is a faithful witness in heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Yet, truly, you have rejected and despised, you have pushed away, my Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> You have overthrown the covenant of your servant. You have profaned his sanctuary on earth.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> You have destroyed all his fences. You have made his territory dreadful.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> All who pass by the way have plundered him. He has become a disgrace to his neighbors.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> You have exalted the right hand of those who oppress him. You have brought joy to all his enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> You have diverted the help of his sword, and you have not assisted him in battle.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> You have torn him away from cleansing, and you have smashed his throne down to the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> You have reduced the days of his time. You have flooded him with confusion.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> How long, O Lord? Will you turn away unto the end? Will your wrath flare up like a fire?</p>

<p><a id="c88_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Remember what my substance is. For could you really have appointed all the sons of men in vain?</p>

<p><a id="c88_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Who is the man that will live, and yet not see death? Who will rescue his own soul from the hand of the underworld?</p>

<p><a id="c88_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> O Lord, where are your mercies of antiquity, just as you swore to David in your truth?</p>

<p><a id="c88_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Be mindful, O Lord, of the disgrace of your servants (which I have sustained in my sinews) among many nations.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> With these, your enemies have reproached you, O Lord; with these, they have reproached the commutation of your Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Blessed is the Lord for all eternity. Amen. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>