<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 71</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 71</h2>

<p><a id="c71_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm according to Solomon.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Give your judgment, O God, to the king, and your justice to the king's son, to judge your people with justice and your poor with judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let the mountains take up peace for the people, and the hills, justice.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He will judge the poor of the people, and he will bring salvation to the sons of the poor. And he will humble the false accuser.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he will remain, with the sun and before the moon, from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He will descend like rain upon fleece, and like showers showering upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In his days, justice will rise like the sun, with abundance of peace, until the moon is taken away.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he will rule from sea to sea and from the river to the limits of the whole world.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In his sight, the Ethiopians will fall prostrate, and his enemies will lick the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The kings of Tarshish and the islands will offer gifts. The kings of Arabia and of Seba will bring gifts.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And all the kings of the earth shall adore him. All nations will serve him.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For he will free the poor from the powerful, and the poor one who has no helper.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He will spare the poor and the indigent, and he will bring salvation to the souls of the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He will redeem their souls from usuries and from iniquity, and their names shall be honorable in his sight.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he will live, and to him will be given from the gold of Arabia, and by him they will always adore. They will bless him all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And there will be a firmament on earth, at the summits of mountains: its fruits will be extolled above Lebanon, and those of the city will flourish like the grass of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> May his name be blessed forever; may his name remain before the sun. And all the tribes of the earth will be blessed in him. All nations will magnify him.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Blessed is the Lord, God of Israel, who alone does wondrous things.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And blessed is the name of his majesty in eternity. And all the earth will be filled with his majesty. Amen. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The praises of David, the son of Jesse, have reached an end.</p>

</body>
</html>