<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 51</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 51</h2>

<p><a id="c51_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto the end. The understanding of David.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When Doeg the Edomite came and reported to Saul, David went to the house of Ahimelech.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Why do you glory in malice, you who are powerful in iniquity?</p>

<p><a id="c51_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> All day long your tongue thinks up injustice. Like a sharp razor, you have wrought deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You have loved malice above goodness, and iniquity more than speaking righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You have loved all precipitous words, you deceitful tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Because of this, God will destroy you in the end. He will pull you up, and he will remove you from your tabernacle and your root from the land of the living.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The just will see and be afraid, and they will laugh over him, and say:</p>

<p><a id="c51_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> "Behold the man who did not set God as his helper. But he hoped in the multitude of his riches, and so he prevailed in his emptiness."</p>

<p><a id="c51_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But I, like a fruitful olive tree in the house of God, have hoped in the mercy of God unto eternity, and forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will confess to you forever, because you have accomplished it. And I will wait on your name, for it is good in the sight of your saints.</p>

</body>
</html>