<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 34</h2>

<p><a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Of David himself. O Lord, judge those who harm me; assail those who attack me.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take hold of weapons and a shield, and rise up in assistance to me.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Bring forth the spear, and close in on those who persecute me. Say to my soul, "I am your salvation."</p>

<p><a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let them be confounded and in awe, who pursue my soul. Let them be turned back and be confounded, who think up evil against me.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> May they become like dust before the face of the wind, and let the Angel of the Lord hem them in.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> May their way become dark and slippery, and may the Angel of the Lord pursue them.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For, without cause, they have concealed their snare for me unto destruction. Over nothing, they have rebuked my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let the snare, of which he is ignorant, come upon him, and let the deception, which he has hidden, take hold of him: and may he fall into that very snare.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But my soul will exult in the Lord and delight over his salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All my bones will say, "Lord, who is like you?" He rescues the needy from the hand of the stronger one, the indigent and the poor from those who plunder him.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Unfair witnesses have risen up, interrogating me about things of which I am ignorant.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They repaid me evil for good, to the deprivation of my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But as for me, when they were harassing me, I was clothed with haircloth. I humbled my soul with fasting, and my prayer will become my sinews.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Like a neighbor, and like our brother, so did I please; like one mourning and contrite, so was I humbled.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they have been joyful against me, and they joined together. Scourges have been gathered over me, and I was ignorant of it.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They have been scattered, yet they were unremorseful. They have tested me. They scoffed at me with scorn. They gnashed their teeth over me.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Lord, when will you look down upon me? Restore my soul from before their malice, my only one from before the lions.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will confess to you in a great Church. I will praise you among a weighty people.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> May those who are my unjust adversaries not be glad over me: those who have hated me without cause, and who nod agreement with their eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For indeed, they spoke peacefully to me; and speaking with passion to the earth, they intended deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they opened their mouth wide over me. They said, "Well, well, our eyes have seen."</p>

<p><a id="c34_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> You have seen, O Lord, do not be silent. Lord, do not depart from me.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Rise up and be attentive to my judgment, to my cause, my God and my Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Judge me according to your justice, O Lord, my God, and do not let them be glad over me.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Do not let them say in their hearts, "Well, well, to our soul." Neither let them say, "We have devoured him."</p>

<p><a id="c34_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Let them blush and be in awe together, those who congratulate at my misfortunes. Let them be clothed with confusion and awe, who speak great things against me.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Let them exult and rejoice, who wish my justice, and let them ever say, "The Lord be magnified," who will the peace of his servant.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And so my tongue will express your justice: your praise all day long.</p>

</body>
</html>