<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 102</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 102</h2>

<p><a id="c102_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To David himself. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and bless his holy name, all that is within me.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Bless the Lord, O my soul, and do not forget all his recompenses.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He forgives all your iniquities. He heals all your infirmities.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He redeems your life from destruction. He crowns you with mercy and compassion.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He satisfies your desire with good things. Your youth will be renewed like that of the eagle.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The Lord accomplishes mercies, and his judgment is for all who patiently endure injuries.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He has made his ways known to Moses, his will to the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Lord is compassionate and merciful, patient and full of mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He will not be angry forever, and he will not threaten for eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He has not dealt with us according to our sins, and he has not repaid us according to our iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For according to the height of the heavens above the earth, so has he reinforced his mercy toward those who fear him.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our iniquities from us.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As a father is compassionate to his sons, so has the Lord been compassionate to those who fear him.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For he knows our form. He has called to mind that we are dust.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Man: his days are like hay. Like the flower of the field, so will he flourish.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the spirit in him will pass away, and it will not remain, and he will know his place no longer.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But the mercy of the Lord is from eternity, and even unto eternity, upon those who fear him. And his justice is with the sons of the sons,</p>

<p><a id="c102_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> with those who serve his covenant and have been mindful of his commandments by doing them.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The Lord has prepared his throne in heaven, and his kingdom will rule over all.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Bless the Lord, all you his Angels: powerful in virtue, doing his word, in order to heed the voice of his discourse.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Bless the Lord, all his hosts: his ministers who do his will.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Bless the Lord, all his works: in every place of his dominion. Bless the Lord, O my soul.</p>

</body>
</html>