<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Does not wisdom call out, and prudence bestow her voice?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> At the summits and the tops of exalted places, standing above the ways, in the midst of the paths,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> beside the gates of the city, at the very doors, she speaks, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> "O men, to you I call out, and my voice is to the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O little ones, understand discernment. And you who are unwise, turn your souls.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Listen, for I will speak about great things, and my lips will be opened, so as to foretell what is right.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> My throat shall practice truth, and my lips shall detest the impious.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All my words are just. There is no depravity in them, and no perversity.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They are upright to those who understand, and equitable to those who discover knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Accept my discipline, and not money. Choose the doctrine that is greater than gold.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For wisdom is better than all that is most precious, and everything that is desirable cannot compare to her.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I, wisdom, dwell in counsel, and I am inside learned thoughts.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The fear of the Lord hates evil. I detest arrogance, and pride, and every wicked way, and a mouth with a double tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Counsel is mine, and equity. Prudence is mine. Strength is mine.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Through me, kings reign and legislators decree just conditions.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Through me, princes rule and the powerful decree justice.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I love those who love me. And those who stand watch for me until morning shall discover me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> With me, are wealth and glory, superb riches and justice.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For my fruit is better than gold and precious stones, and my progeny better than choice silver.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I walk in the way of justice, in the midst of the paths of judgment,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> so that I may enrich those who love me, and thus complete their treasures.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his ways, before he made anything, from the beginning.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I was ordained from eternity, and out of antiquity, before the earth was formed.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The abyss did not yet exist, and I was already conceived; neither had the fountains of waters yet erupted.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The mountains, with their great mass, had not yet been established. Before the hills, I was brought forth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Still he had not made the earth, and the rivers, and the poles of the globe of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I was already present: when he prepared the heavens; when, with a certain law and a circuit, he fortified the abyss;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> when he made firm the sky above, and set free the fountains of waters;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> when he encompassed the sea within its limits, and laid down a law for the waters, lest they transgress their limits; when he weighed the foundations of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I was with him in composing all things. And I was delighted, throughout every day, by playing in his sight at all times,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> playing in globe of the earth. And my delight was to be with the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Therefore, sons, hear me now. Blessed are those who preserve my ways.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Listen to discipline, and become wise, and do not be willing to cast it aside.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Blessed is the man who listens to me, and who stands watch at my gates everyday, and who observes at the posts of my doors.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He who finds me, finds life, and he will draw salvation from the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But he who sins against me will wound his own soul. All who hate me love death."</p>

</body>
</html>