<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A wise son is the doctrine of his father. But he who ridicules does not listen when he is reproved.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> From the fruit of his own month, a man shall be satisfied with good things. But the soul of betrayers is iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Whoever guards his mouth guards his soul. But whoever gives no consideration to his speech shall experience misfortunes.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The lazy one is willing and then not willing. But the soul of he who labors shall be made fat.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The just shall detest a lying word. But the impious confound and will be confounded.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Justice guards the way of the innocent. But impiety undermines the sinner.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> One is like the rich, though he has nothing. And another is like the poor, though he has many riches.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The redemption of a man's life is his riches. But he who is poor cannot tolerate correction.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The light of the just enriches. But the lamp of the impious will be extinguished.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Among the arrogant, there are always conflicts. But those who do everything with counsel are ruled by wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Substance obtained in haste will be diminished. But what is collected by hand, little by little, shall be multiplied.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hope, when it is delayed, afflicts the soul. The arrival of the desired is a tree of life.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoever denounces something obligates himself for the future. But whoever fears a lesson shall turn away in peace. Deceitful souls wander into sins. The just are merciful and compassionate.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The law of the wise is a fountain of life, so that he may turn aside from the ruin of death.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Good doctrine bestows grace. In the way of the contemptuous, there is a chasm.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The discerning do everything with counsel. But whoever is senseless discloses his stupidity.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The messenger of the impious will fall into evil. But a faithful ambassador shall prosper.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Destitution and disgrace are for those who abandon discipline. But whoever agrees with a reproof shall be glorified.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The desired, when perfected, shall delight the soul. The foolish detest those who flee from evils.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whoever keeps step with the wise shall be wise. A friend of the foolish will become like them.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Evil pursues sinners. And good things shall be distributed to the just.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The good leave behind heirs: children and grandchildren. And the substance of the sinner is preserved for the just.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Much nourishment is in the fallow land of the fathers. But for others, it is gathered without judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He who spares the rod hates his son. But he who loves him urgently instructs him.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The just eats and fills his soul. But the belly of the impious is never satisfied.</p>

</body>
</html>