<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A wise son gladdens the father. Yet truly, a foolish son is the grief of his mother.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Treasures of impiety will profit nothing. Truly, justice shall liberate from death.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The Lord will not afflict with famine the soul of the just, and he will overthrow the treacheries of the impious.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The neglectful hand has wrought destitution. But the hand of the steadfast prepares riches. He who advances by lies, this one feeds on the wind. For he is the same as one who runs after flying birds.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He who gathers the harvest is a wise son. But he who snores in warm weather is a son of confusion.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The blessing of the Lord is on the head of the just. But iniquity covers the mouth of the impious.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The remembrance of the just is with praises. And the name of the impious shall decay.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The wise of heart accept precepts. The foolish are cut down by the lips.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He who walks in simplicity walks in confidence. But he who corrupts his ways shall be discovered.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He who winks with the eye gives sorrow. And the foolish in lips shall be beaten.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The mouth of the just is a vein of life. And the mouth of the impious covers iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hatred rises up from disputes. And charity covers all offenses.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In the lips of the wise, wisdom is discovered. And a rod is for the back of one who lacks heart.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The wise store away knowledge. But the mouth of the foolish is a neighbor to confusion.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The substance of the rich is the city of his strength. The fear of the poor is their destitution.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The work of the just is unto life. But the fruit of the impious is unto sin.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The way of life is for those who observe discipline. But whoever abandons correction wanders astray.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Lying lips conceal hatred; whoever brings forth contempt is unwise.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In a multitude of speaking, sin will not be lacking. But whoever tempers his lips is most prudent.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The tongue of the just is choice silver. But the heart of the impious is exchanged for nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The lips of the just instruct many. But those who are unlearned shall die in destitution of heart.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The blessing of the Lord causes riches. Affliction will not be a companion to them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The foolish work wickedness as if in jest. But wisdom is prudence to a man.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> What the impious fear will overwhelm them. The just shall be given their desire.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Like a passing tempest, so the impious one will be no more. But the just one is like an everlasting foundation.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Like vinegar to the teeth, and smoke to the eyes, so is a lazy one to those who sent him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The fear of the Lord adds days. And the years of the impious will be shortened.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The expectation of the just is rejoicing. But the hope of the impious will perish.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The strength of the simple is the way of the Lord, and it is fear to those who work evil.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The just in eternity shall not be moved. But the impious will not live upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The mouth of the just shall bring forth wisdom. The tongue of the depraved will perish.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The lips of the just consider what is acceptable. And the mouth of the impious considers perversities.</p>

</body>
</html>