<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wisdom has built a house for herself. She has hewn seven columns.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> She has immolated her victims. She has mixed her wine and set forth her table.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> She has sent her maids to call out to the tower and to the fortified walls of the city,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> "If anyone is little, let him come to me." And to the unwise, she has said:</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> "Approach. Eat my bread, and drink the wine that I have mixed for you.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Leave behind childishness. And live and walk by the ways of prudence."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Whoever teaches a mocker causes injury to himself. And whoever argues with the impious produces a blemish on himself.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Do not be willing to argue with a mocker, lest he hate you. Dispute with the wise, and he will love you.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Present an opportunity to the wise, and wisdom shall be added to him. Teach the just, and he will hurry to receive it.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and knowledge of holiness is prudence.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For by me, your days will be multiplied and years of life will be added to you.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If you would be wise, you will be so for yourself. But if you would be one who ridicules, you alone shall carry the evil.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A foolish and loud woman, who is full of enticements and who knows nothing at all,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> sat at the entrance of her house on a seat, in a high place of the city,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> so as to call to those who were passing by the way and continuing on their journey:</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> "Whoever is little, let him turn aside to me." And to the frenzied, she said,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> "Stolen waters are more soothing, and secret bread is more pleasant."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he did not know that giants are there, and that her companions are in the depths of Hell.</p>

</body>
</html>