<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, guard my words and conceal my precepts within you.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son, preserve my commandments, and you shall live. And keep my law as the pupil of your eye.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Bind it with your fingers; write it on the tablets of your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Say to wisdom, "You are my sister," and call prudence your friend.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So may she guard you from the woman who is an outsider, and from the stranger who sweetens her words.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For I gaze from the window of my house, through the lattice,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and I see little ones. I consider a frenzied youth,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> who crosses the street at the corner and close to the way of that house.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He steps into shadows, as day becomes evening, into the darkness and gloom of the night.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And behold, a woman meets him, dressed like a harlot, prepared to captivate souls: chattering and rambling,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> unwilling to bear silence, unable to keep her feet at home,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> now outside, now in the streets, now lying in ambush near the corners.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And overtaking the youth, she kisses him, and with a provocative face, she flatters him, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> "I vowed sacrifices for well-being. Today I have repaid my vows.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Because of this, I have gone out to meet you, desiring to see you, and I have found you.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I have woven my bed with cords. I have strewn it with embroidered tapestries from Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I have sprinkled my bed with myrrh, aloe, and cinnamon.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Come, let us be inebriated in abundance, and let us delight in the embraces of desire, until the day begins to dawn.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For my husband is not in his house. He has gone away on a very long journey.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He took with him a bag of money. He will return to his house on the day of the full moon."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> She enmeshed him with many words, and she drew him forward with the flattery of her lips.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Immediately, he follows her, like an ox being led to the sacrifice, and like a lamb acting lasciviously, and not knowing that he is being drawn foolishly into chains,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> until the arrow pierces his liver. It is just as if a bird were to hurry into the snare. And he does not know that his actions endanger his own soul.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore, my son, hear me now, and attend to the words of my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Do not let your mind be pulled into her ways. And do not be deceived by her paths.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For she has tossed aside many wounded, and some of those who were very strong have been slain by her.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Her household is the way to Hell, reaching even to the inner places of death.</p>

</body>
</html>