<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, if you have taken a pledge on behalf of your friend, then you have bound your hand to an outsider,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> then you are ensnared by the words of your own mouth, and taken captive by your own words.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore, my son, do what I say, and free yourself, for you have fallen into the hand of your neighbor. Run, hurry, awaken your friend.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Do not grant sleep to your eyes, nor let your eyelids slumber.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Rescue yourself like a gazelle from the hand, and like a bird from the hand of the fowler.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Go to the ant, you lazy one, and consider her ways, and so learn wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For though she has no ruler, nor instructor, nor leader,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> she provides meals for herself in the summer, and she gathers at the harvest what she may eat.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> How long will you slumber, you lazy one? When will you rise up from your sleep?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You will sleep a little, you will slumber a little, you will fold your hands a little to sleep,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and then destitution will meet with you, like a traveler, and poverty, like an armed man. Yet truly, if you would be diligent, then your harvest will arrive like a fountain, and destitution will flee far from you.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> An apostate man, a harmful man, walks with a perverse mouth;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> he winks with the eyes, touches with the foot, speaks with the finger.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> With a depraved heart he devises evil, and at all times he sows conflict.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> To this one, his perdition will arrive promptly, and he shall be crushed suddenly: he will no longer have any remedy.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Six things there are that the Lord hates, and the seventh, his soul detests:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> haughty eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> a heart that devises the most wicked thoughts, feet running swiftly unto evil,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> a deceitful witness bringing forth lies, and he who sows discord among brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My son, preserve the precepts of your father, and do not dismiss the law of your mother.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Bind them to your heart unceasingly, and encircle them around your throat.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When you walk, let them keep step with you. When you sleep, let them guard you. And when you keep watch, speak with them.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For commandment is a lamp, and law is a light, and the reproofs of discipline are the way of life.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> So may they guard you from an evil woman, and from the flattering tongue of the outsider.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let not your heart desire her beauty; do not be captivated by her winks.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For the price of a prostitute is only one loaf. Yet the woman seizes the precious soul of a man.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Would a man be able to conceal fire in his bosom, so that his garments would not burn?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Or could he walk over burning coals, so that his feet would not be burned?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> So also, he who enters to the wife of his neighbor shall not be clean when he touches her.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Not so great is the fault when someone has stolen. For he steals so as to satisfy a hungry soul.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Also, if he is apprehended, he shall repay sevenfold and hand over all the substance of his house.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But whoever is an adulterer, because of the emptiness of his heart, will destroy his own soul.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He gathers shame and dishonor to himself, and his disgrace will not be wiped away.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For the jealousy and fury of the husband will not spare him on the day of vindication,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> nor will he agree to the pleadings of anyone, nor will he accept, as repayment, a multitude of gifts.</p>

</body>
</html>