<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The man who, with a stiff neck, treats the one who corrects him with contempt will be suddenly overwhelmed to his own destruction, and reason shall not follow him.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When just men are multiplied, the common people shall rejoice. When the impious take up the leadership, the people shall mourn.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The man who loves wisdom rejoices his father. But whoever nurtures promiscuous women will lose his substance.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A just king guides the land. A man of avarice will destroy it.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A man who speaks to his friend with flattering and feigned words spreads a net for his own feet.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A snare will entangle the iniquitous when he sins. And the just shall praise and be glad.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The just knows the case of the poor. The impious is ignorant of knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Pestilent men squander a city. Yet truly, the wise avert fury.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A wise man, if he were to contend with the foolish, whether in anger or in laughter, would find no rest.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Bloodthirsty men hate the simple one; but the just seek out his soul.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A foolish one offers everything on his mind. A wise one reserves and defers until later.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A leader who freely listens to lying words has only impious servants.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The pauper and the creditor have met one another. The Lord is the illuminator of them both.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The king who judges the poor in truth, his throne shall be secured in eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The rod and its correction distribute wisdom. But the child who is left to his own will brings shame to his mother.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When the impious are multiplied, crimes will be multiplied. But the just shall see their ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Teach your son, and he will refresh you, and he will give delight to your soul.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> When prophecy fails, the people will be scattered. Yet truly, whoever guards the law is blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A servant cannot be taught by words, because he understands what you say, but he disdains to respond.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Have you seen a man rushing to speak? Foolishness has more hope than his correction.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Whoever nurtures his servant delicately from childhood, afterwards will find him defiant.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A short-tempered man provokes quarrels. And whoever is easily angered is more likely to sin.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Humiliation follows the arrogant. And glory shall uphold the humble in spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Whoever participates with a thief hates his own soul; for he listens to his oath and does not denounce him.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Whoever fears man will quickly fall. Whoever hopes in the Lord shall be lifted up.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Many demand the face of the leader. But the judgment of each one proceeds from the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The just abhor an impious man. And the impious abhor those who are on the right way. By keeping the word, the son shall be free from perdition.</p>

</body>
</html>