<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Do not imitate evil men, nor desire to be among them.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For their mind meditates on robberies, and their lips speak deceptions.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> By wisdom shall a house be built, and by prudence shall it be strengthened.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> By doctrine, the storerooms shall be filled with every substance that is precious and most beautiful.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A wise man is strong, and a well-taught man is robust and valiant.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For war is undertaken in an orderly manner, and safety shall be where there are many counsels.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wisdom is beyond the foolish; at the gate he will not open his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Whoever intends to do evil shall be called foolish.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The intention of the foolish is sin. And the detractor is an abomination among men.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If you despair, being weary in the day of anguish, your strength will be diminished.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Rescue those who are led away to death. And do not cease from delivering those who are dragged away to a violent death.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If you would say: "I do not have sufficient strength." He who inspects the heart, the same one understands, and nothing slips past the one who preserves your soul. And he shall repay a man according to his works.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> My son, eat honey, because it is good, and the honeycomb, because it is so sweet to your throat.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> So, too, is the doctrine of wisdom to your soul. When you have found it, you will have hope in the end, and your hope shall not perish.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Do not lie in wait, and do not seek impiety in the house of the just, nor spoil his rest.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the just one will fall seven times, and he shall rise again. But the impious will fall into evil.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> When your enemy will fall, do not be glad, and do not let your heart exult in his ruin,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> lest perhaps the Lord see, and it displease him, and he may take away his wrath from him.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Do not contend with the most wicked, and do not be a rival to the impious.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For the evil hold no hope in the future, and the lamp of the impious will be extinguished.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> My son, fear the Lord, as well as the king. And do not mingle with detractors.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For their perdition shall up rise suddenly. And who knows what ruin will be for each of them?</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Likewise, these things are for the wise. It is not good to base judgment on knowledge of character.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Those who say to the impious, "You are just," shall be cursed by the people, and the tribes shall detest them.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Those who argue against the impious shall be praised, and a blessing shall come upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He shall kiss the lips, who responds with upright words.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Prepare your outdoor work, and diligently cultivate your field, so that afterward, you may build your house.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Do not be a witness without cause against your neighbor. And do not mislead anyone with your lips.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Do not say, "I will do to him as he has done to me." I will repay each one according to his work.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I passed by the field of a lazy man, and by the vineyard of a foolish man,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and behold, it was entirely filled with nettles, and thorns had covered its surface, and the stonewall was destroyed.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> When I had seen this, I laid it up in my heart, and by this example, I received discipline.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> You will sleep a little," I said. "You will slumber briefly. You will fold your hands a little, so as to rest.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And destitution will overtake you like a runner, and begging will overtake you like an armed man."</p>

</body>
</html>