<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, if you would accept my words, and conceal my commandments within you,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> so that your ears may listen to wisdom, then bend your heart in order to know prudence.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For if you would call upon wisdom and bend your heart to prudence,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> if you will seek her like money, and dig for her as if for treasure,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> then you will understand the fear of the Lord, and you will discover the knowledge of God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the Lord bestows wisdom, and out of his mouth, prudence and knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He will preserve the salvation of the righteous, and he will protect those who walk in simplicity:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> serving the paths of justice, and guarding the ways of sanctity.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then you shall understand justice and judgment, and equity, and every good path.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If wisdom is to enter into your heart, and if knowledge is to become pleasing to your soul,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> then counsel must guard you, and prudence must serve you,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> so that you may be rescued from the evil way, and from the man who speaks perversities,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> from those who leave the straight path to walk in dark ways,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> who rejoice when they have done evil, and who exult in the most wicked things.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Their ways are perverse, and their steps are infamous.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So may you be rescued from the foreign woman, and from the outsider, who softens her speech,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and who leaves behind the Guide of her youth,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and who has forgotten the covenant of her God. For her household inclines toward death, and her paths toward Hell.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> All those who enter to her will not return again, nor will they take hold of the paths of life.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> So may you walk in the good way, and keep to the difficult paths of the just.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For those who are upright shall live upon the earth, and the simple shall continue upon it.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yet truly, the impious shall perish from the earth, and those who act unjustly shall be taken away from it.</p>

</body>
</html>