<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge. But whoever hates correction is unwise.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Whoever is good shall draw grace from the Lord. But whoever trusts in his own thoughts acts impiously.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Man will not be made strong from impiety. And the root of the just shall not be moved.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A diligent woman is a crown to her husband. And she who acts with confusion as to which things are worthy is decay to his bones.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The thoughts of the just are judgments. And the counsels of the impious are dishonest.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The words of the impious lie in wait for blood. The mouth of the just shall free them.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Turn from the impious, and they will not be. But the house of the just shall stand firm.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A man will be known by his doctrine. But whoever is vain and heartless will suffer contempt.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Better is a pauper who has what he needs, than someone glorious and in need of bread.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The just one knows the lives of his beasts. But the inner most parts of the impious are cruel.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Whoever works his land shall be satisfied with bread. But whoever continually pursues leisure is most foolish. Whoever is soothed by lingering over wine leaves behind contempt in his strongholds.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The desire of the impious is the fortification of what is most wicked. But the root of the just shall prosper.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For the sins of the lips draw ruin to the evil. But the just shall escape from distress.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> By the fruit of his own mouth, each one shall be filled with good things, and according to the works of his own hands, it will be distributed to him.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The way of the foolish is right in his own eyes. But whoever is wise listens to counsels.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The senseless immediately reveals his anger. But whoever ignores injuries is clever.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He is a sign of justice, who speaks what he knows. But whoever deceives is a dishonest witness.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He who makes promises is also jabbed, as if with a sword, in conscience. But the tongue of the wise is reasonable.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The lips of truth shall be steadfast forever. But a hasty witness readies a lying tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Deceit is in the heart of those who devise evils. But gladness follows those who take up counsels of peace.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Whatever may befall the just, it will not discourage him. But the impious will be filled with disasters.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Lying lips are an abomination to the Lord. But whoever acts faithfully pleases him.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> A resourceful man conceals knowledge. And the heart of the unwise provokes foolishness.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The hand of the strong will rule. But anyone who is neglectful will pay tribute.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Grief in the heart of a man humbles him. And with a good word he shall be made glad.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He who ignores a loss for the sake of a friend is just. But the way of the impious will deceive them.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The dishonest will not discover gain. But the substance of a man will be like precious gold.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In the path of justice, there is life. But the devious way leads to death.</p>

</body>
</html>