<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Do not boast about tomorrow, for you do not know what the future day may bring.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let another praise you, and not your own mouth: an outsider, and not your own lips.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A stone is weighty, and sand is burdensome; but the wrath of the foolish is heavier than both.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Anger holds no mercy, nor does fury when it erupts. And who can bear the assault of one who has been provoked?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> An open rebuke is better than hidden love.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The wounds of a loved one are better than the deceitful kisses of a hateful one.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A sated soul will trample the honeycomb. And a hungry soul will accept even bitter in place of sweet.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Just like a bird migrating from her nest, so also is a man who abandons his place.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ointment and various perfumes delight the heart. And the good advice of a friend is sweet to the soul.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Do not dismiss your friend or your father's friend. And do not enter your brother's house in the day of your affliction. A close neighbor is better than a distant brother.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My son, study wisdom, and rejoice my heart, so that you may be able to respond to the one who reproaches.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The discerning man, seeing evil, hides himself. The little ones, continuing on, sustain losses.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Take away the garment of him who has vouched for an outsider. And take a pledge from him on behalf of foreigners.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Whoever blesses his neighbor with a grand voice, rising in the night, shall be like one who curses.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A roof leaking on a cold day, and an argumentative woman, are comparable.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He who would restrain her, he is like one who would grasp the wind, or who would gather together oil with his right hand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Iron sharpens iron, and a man sharpens the countenance of his friend.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whoever maintains the fig tree shall eat its fruit. And whoever is the keeper of his master shall be glorified.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In the manner of faces looking into shining water, so are the hearts of men made manifest to the prudent.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Hell and perdition are never filled; similarly the eyes of men are insatiable.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> In the manner of silver being tested in the refinery, and gold in the furnace, so also is a man tested by the mouth of one who praises. The heart of the iniquitous inquires after evils, but the heart of the righteous inquires after knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Even if you were to crush the foolish with a mortar, as when a pestle strikes over pearled barley, his foolishness would not be taken from him.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Be diligent to know the countenance of your cattle, and consider your own flocks,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> for you will not always hold this power. But a crown shall be awarded from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The meadows are open, and the green plants have appeared, and the hay has been collected from the mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Lambs are for your clothing, and goats are for the price of a field.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Let the milk of goats be sufficient for your food, and for the necessities of your household, and for the provisions of your handmaids.</p>

</body>
</html>