<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The impious flees, though no one pursues. But the just, like a confident lion, shall be without dread.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Because of the sins of the land, it has many princes. And because of the wisdom of a man, and the knowledge of those things that are said, the life of the leader shall be prolonged.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A poor man slandering the poor is like a violent rainstorm in advance of a famine.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Those who abandon the law praise the impious. Those who guard it are inflamed against him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Evil men do not intend judgment. But those who inquire after the Lord turn their souls toward all things.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Better is the pauper walking in his simplicity, than the rich walking in ways of depravity.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Whoever keeps the law is a wise son. But whoever feeds gluttons brings shame to his father.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Whoever piles up riches by usury and profit gathers them for him who will give freely to the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whoever turns away his ears from listening to the law: his prayer will be detestable.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Whoever deceives the just in a malicious way will fall into his own perdition. And the simple shall possess his goods.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The rich one seems wise to himself. But the poor one, being prudent, shall evaluate him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In the exultation of the just, there is great glory. When the impious reign, men are brought to ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoever hides his crimes will not be guided. But whoever will have confessed and abandoned them shall overtake mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Blessed is the man who is ever fearful. Yet truly, whoever is hardened in mind will fall into evil.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> An impious leader over a poor people is like a roaring lion and a hungry bear.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A leader destitute of prudence will oppress many through false accusations. But whoever hates avarice shall prolong his days.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A man who slanders the blood of a life, even if he flees to the pit, no one will tolerate him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whoever walks simply shall be saved. Whoever is perverse in his steps will fall all at once.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Whoever works his land shall be satisfied with bread. But whoever pursues leisure will be filled with need.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A faithful man shall be greatly praised. But whoever rushes to become rich will not be innocent.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Whoever shows favoritism in judgment does not do well; even if it is for a morsel of bread, he forsakes the truth.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A man who hurries to become rich, and who envies others, does not know that destitution will overwhelm him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whoever corrects a man, afterward he shall find favor with him, more so than he who deceives him with a flattering tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Whoever takes away anything from his father or mother, and who says, "This is not a sin," is the associate of a murderer.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Whoever boasts and enlarges himself stirs up conflicts. Yet truly, whoever trusts in the Lord will be healed.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Whoever trusts in his own heart is a fool. But whoever treads wisely, the same shall be saved.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whoever gives to the poor shall not be in need. Whoever despises his petition will suffer scarcity.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> When the impious rise up, men will hide themselves. When they perish, the just shall be multiplied.</p>

</body>
</html>