<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These, too, are parables of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah, king of Judah, transferred.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It is to the glory of God to conceal a word, and it is to the glory of kings to investigate speech.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Heaven above, and earth below, and the heart of kings are each unsearchable.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Take away the tarnish from silver, and a most pure vessel will go forth.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Take away impiety from the face of the king, and his throne shall be made firm by justice.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Do not appear glorious before the king, and do not stand in the place of the great.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For it is better that it should be said to you, "Ascend to here," than that you should be humbled before the prince.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The things that your eyes have seen, do not offer hastily in a quarrel, lest afterward you may not be able to make amends, when you have dishonored your friend.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Argue your case with your friend, and do not reveal the secret to an outsider,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> lest perhaps he may insult you, when he has heard it, and he might not cease to reproach you. Grace and friendship free a man; preserve these for yourself, lest you fall under reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Whoever speaks a word at an opportune time is like apples of gold on beds of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Whoever reproves the wise and obedient ear is like an earring of gold with a shining pearl.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Just like the cold of snow in a time of harvest, so also is a faithful messenger to him who sent him: he causes his soul to rest.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A man who boasts and does not fulfill his promises is like clouds and wind, when rain does not follow.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> By patience, a leader shall be appeased, and a soft tongue shall break hardness.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> You have discovered honey; eat what is sufficient for you, lest perhaps, being filled up, you may vomit it.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Withdraw your feet from the house of your neighbor, lest, when he has had his fill, he may hate you.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A man who speaks false testimony against his neighbor is like a dart and a sword and a sharp arrow.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Whoever sets his hopes on the unfaithful in a day of anguish is like a rotten tooth and weary foot,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and like one who loosens his garment in cold weather. Whoever sings verses to a wicked heart is like vinegar on baking soda. Just like a moth to a garment, and a worm to wood, so too does the sadness of a man do harm to the heart.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> If your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him water to drink.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For you will gather hot coals upon his head, and the Lord will repay you.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The north wind brings forth the rain, and a sorrowful face brings forth a detracting tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> It is better to sit in a corner of the attic, than with an argumentative woman and in a shared house.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Like cold water to a thirsty soul, so too are good reports from a far away land.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The just falling down before the impious is like a fountain stirred up by feet and like a corrupted spring.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Just as whoever eats too much honey, it is not good for him, so also whoever is an investigator of what is majestic will be overwhelmed by glory.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Just like a city lying in the open and without surrounding walls, so also is a man who is unable to restrain his own spirit in speaking.</p>

</body>
</html>