<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The parables of Solomon, son of David, king of Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> in order to know wisdom and discipline,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> to understand words of prudence, and to accept the instruction of doctrine, justice and judgment, and equity,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> so as to give discernment to little ones, knowledge and understanding to adolescents.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By listening, the wise shall become wiser and the intelligent shall possess governments.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He shall turn his soul to a parable and to its interpretation, to the words of the wise and their enigmas.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. The foolish despise wisdom as well as doctrine.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Listen, my son, to the discipline of your father, and forsake not the law of your mother,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> so that grace may be added to your head and a collar to your neck.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My son, if sinners should entice you, do not consent to them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If they should say: "Come with us. We will lie in wait for blood. We will lay traps against the innocent, without cause.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let us swallow him alive, like Hell, and whole, like one descending into the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> We will discover every precious substance. We will fill our houses with spoils.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Cast your lot with us. One purse will be for us all."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My son, do not walk with them. Preclude your feet from their paths.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For their feet rush to evil, and they hurry to shed blood.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But a net is thrown in vain before the eyes of those who have wings.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Likewise, they lie in ambush against their own blood, and they undertake deceits against their own souls.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thus, the ways of all those who are greedy seize the souls of those who possess.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Wisdom forewarns far and wide; she bestows her voice in the streets.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> She cries out at the head of crowds; at the entrance of the gates of the city, she offers her words, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> "Little ones, how long will you choose to be childish, and how long will the foolish desire what is harmful to themselves, and how long will the imprudent hate knowledge?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Be converted by my correction. Lo, I will offer my spirit to you, and I will reveal my words to you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For I called, and you refused. I extended my hand, and there was no one who watched.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> You have despised all my counsels, and you have neglected my rebukes.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Similarly, I will ridicule you at your demise, and I will mock you, when that which you feared shall overcome you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> When sudden calamity rushes upon you, and your demise advances like a tempest, when tribulation and anguish overcome you,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> then they will call to me, and I will not heed, they will arise in the morning, and not find me.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For they held hatred for discipline, and they would not accept the fear of the Lord;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> they would not consent to my counsel, but they detracted from all of my corrections.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore, they shall eat the fruit of their way, and they shall have their fill of their own counsels.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The loathing of the little ones shall destroy them, and the prosperity of the foolish shall perish them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But whoever will listen to me shall rest without terror, and shall have full enjoyment of abundance, without fear of evils."</p>

</body>
</html>