<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> It is a luxurious thing, wine, and inebriation is tumultuous. Anyone who is delighted by this will not be wise.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Just like the roaring of a lion, so also is the dread of a king. Whoever provokes him sins in his own soul.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Honor is for the man who separates himself from contentions. But all the foolish meddle in altercations.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Because of the cold, the lazy one was not willing to plough. Therefore, in the summer, he will beg, and it will not be given to him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Counsel in the heart of a man is like deep waters. But a wise man will draw it out.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Many men are called merciful. But who will find a faithful man?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The just who walks in his simplicity shall leave behind him blessed sons.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The king who sits on the throne of judgment scatters all evil with his gaze.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who is able to say: "My heart is clean. I am pure from sin?"</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Diverse weights, diverse measures: both are abominable with God.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A child may be understood by his interests: whether his works may be clean and upright.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The hearing ear and the seeing eye: the Lord has made them both.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Do not love sleep, lest deprivation oppress you. Open your eyes and be satisfied with bread.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> "It is bad, it is bad," says every buyer; and when he has withdrawn, then he will boast.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> There is gold, and there are a multitude of jewels. But lips of knowledge are a precious vessel.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Take away the vestments of him who stands up to vouch for a stranger, and take a pledge from him instead of from outsiders.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The bread of lies is sweet to a man. But afterwards, his mouth will be filled with pebbles.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Plans are strengthened by counsels. And wars are to be handled by governments.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Do not become involved with him who reveals mysteries, and who walks deceitfully, and who enlarges his lips.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whoever curses his father and mother, his lamp will be extinguished in the midst of darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> When an inheritance is obtained hastily in the beginning, in the end it will be without a blessing.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Do not say, "I will repay evil." Wait for the Lord, and he will free you.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Diverse weights are an abomination with the Lord. A deceitful balance is not good.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The steps of men are directed by the Lord. But who is the man able to understand his own way?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> It is ruin for a man to devour what is holy, or, after making vows, to retract them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> A wise king scatters the impious and bends an archway over them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The spirit of a man is a lamp to the Lord, which investigates all the secrets of the inner self.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Mercy and truth guard the king, and his throne is strengthened by clemency.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The joy of youths is their strength. And the dignity of old men is their grey hairs.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The bruise of a wound, as well as scourges, shall wipe away evils in the more secret places of the inner self.</p>

</body>
</html>