<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A deceitful scale is an abomination with the Lord, and a fair weighing is his will.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Wherever arrogance may be, there too is insult. But wherever humility is, there too is wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The simplicity of the just shall direct them, and the rebellion of the perverse will devastate them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Wealth will not profit in the day of vengeance. But justice shall liberate from death.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The justice of the simple shall direct his way. And the impious will fall in his impiety.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The justice of the upright shall free them. And the iniquitous will be seized by their own treachery.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When the impious man is dead, there will no longer be any hope. And the expectation of the anxious will perish.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The just one is freed from anguish. And the impious one will be handed over instead of him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The pretender deceives his friend by mouth. But the just shall be freed by knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In the good of the just, the city shall exult. And in the perdition of the impious, there shall be praise.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> By the blessing of the just, the city shall be exalted. And by the mouth of the impious, it will be subverted.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Whoever despises his friend is destitute in heart. But the prudent man will remain silent.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoever walks dishonestly reveals secrets. But whoever is of a faithful soul conceals what is confided by a friend.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Where there is no governor, the people shall fall. But where there is much counsel, well-being shall be.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He will be afflicted with evil, who provides a guarantee for an outsider. But whoever is wary of traps shall be secure.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A gracious woman shall discover glory. And the robust will have wealth.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A merciful man benefits his own soul. But whoever is cruel casts out even his close relatives.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The impious does work with inconstancy. But for the sower of justice, there is the reward of faithfulness.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Clemency prepares life. And the pursuit of evils prepares death.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A depraved heart is abominable to the Lord. And his will is with those who walk in simplicity.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Hand in hand, the evil shall not be innocent. But the offspring of the just shall be saved.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A beautiful and senseless woman is like a gold ring in the snout of a swine.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The desire of the just is entirely good. The anticipation of the impious is fury.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Some distribute their own goods, and they become wealthier. Others seize what is not their own, and they are always in need.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The soul that blesses shall be made fat. And whoever inebriates will likewise be inebriated himself.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Whoever hides away grain shall be cursed among the people. But a blessing is upon the head of those who sell it.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He does well to rise early, who seeks what is good. But whoever is a seeker of evils shall be oppressed by them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Whoever trusts in his riches will fall. But the just shall spring up like a green leaf.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Whoever troubles his own house will possess the winds. And whoever is foolish will serve the wise.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The fruit of the just one is the tree of life. And whoever receives souls is wise.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> If the just are repaid upon the earth, how much more the impious and the sinner!</p>

</body>
</html>