<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, pay attention to my wisdom, and incline your ear to my prudence,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> so that you may guard your thinking, and so that your lips may preserve discipline. Do not pay attention to the deceit of a woman.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the lips of a loose woman are like a dripping honeycomb, and her voice is smoother than oil.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But in the end, she is as bitter as wormwood, and as sharp as a two-edged sword.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Her feet descend into death, and her steps reach even to Hell.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They do not walk along the path of life; her steps are wandering and untraceable.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, my son, listen to me now, and do not withdraw from the words of my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Make your way at a distance from her, and do not approach the doors of her house.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Do not give your honor to foreigners, and your years to the cruel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Otherwise, outsiders may be filled with your strength, and your labors may be in a foreign house,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and you may mourn in the end, when you will have consumed your flesh and your body. And so you may say:</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> "Why have I detested discipline, and why has my heart not been quieted by correction?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And why have I not listened to the voice of those who guided me? And why has my ear not inclined to my teachers?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have almost been with all evil in the midst of the church and of the assembly."</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Drink water from your own cistern and from the springs of your own well.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let your fountains be diverted far and wide, and divide your waters in the streets.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Hold them for yourself alone, and do not let strangers be partakers with you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let your spring be blessed, and rejoice with the wife of your youth:</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> a beloved doe and most pleasing fawn. Let her breasts inebriate you at all times. Be delighted continually by her love.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Why are you seduced, my son, by a strange woman, and why are you kept warm by the bosom of another?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The Lord beholds the ways of man, and he considers all his steps.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> His own iniquities take hold of the impious, and he is bound by the cords of his own sins.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He shall die, for he has not held to discipline. And by the multitude of his foolishness, he shall be deceived.</p>

</body>
</html>