<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Better is the poor who walks in his simplicity, than the rich who twists his lips and is unwise.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Where there is no knowledge of the soul, there is no good. And whoever hurries with his feet will stumble.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The foolishness of a man undermines his steps. And then he seethes in his soul against God.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Riches adds many friends. But from the pauper, even those whom he had become separated.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A false witness shall not go unpunished. And whoever speaks lies will not escape.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Many honor the character of one who is powerful, and there are friends for a giver of gifts.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The brothers of the poor man hate him. Moreover, even his friends have withdrawn far from him. Whoever pursues only words shall have nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But whoever possesses reason loves his own soul. And one who guards prudence shall discover good things.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A false witness shall not go unpunished. And whoever speaks lies will perish.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Fine things are not fitting for the foolish, nor is it fitting for a servant to rule over princes.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The doctrine of a man is known through patience. And his glory is to pass beyond iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Like the roaring of a lion, so also is the wrath of a king. And his cheerfulness is like the dew upon the grass.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A foolish son is the grief of his father. And an argumentative wife is like a roof that is continually leaking.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A house and its riches are given by parents. But a prudent wife is particularly from the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Laziness sends one into a deep sleep, and a dissolute soul will go hungry.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Whoever guards a commandment guards his own soul. But whoever neglects his own way will die.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Whoever is merciful to the poor lends to the Lord. And he will repay him for his efforts.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Teach your son; do not despair. But do not set your soul toward putting him to death.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Whoever is impatient will sustain damage. And when it has been taken away, he will set up another.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Listen to counsel and take up discipline, so that you may be wise in your latter days.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> There are many intentions in the heart of a man. But the will of the Lord shall stand firm.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> An indigent man is merciful. And a pauper is better than a deceitful man.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The fear of the Lord is unto life. And he shall linger in plentitude, without being visited by disaster.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The lazy conceals his hand under his arm, and he will not so much as bring it to his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When the pestilent are scourged, the foolish will become wiser. But if you chastise the wise, he will understand discipline.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Whoever afflicts his father and flees from his mother is disreputable and unhappy.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Son, do not cease listening to doctrine, and do not be ignorant of the sermons of knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> An unjust witness ridicules judgment. And the mouth of the impious devours iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Judgments are prepared for those who ridicule. And striking hammers are prepared for the bodies of the foolish.</p>

</body>
</html>