<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The words of king Lamuel. The vision by which his mother instructed him:</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "What, O my beloved? What, O beloved of my womb? What, O beloved of my vows?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do not give your substance to women, or your riches to overthrow kings.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Not to kings, O Lamuel, not to kings give wine. For there are no secrets where drunkenness reigns.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And perhaps they may drink and forget judgments, and alter the case of the sons of the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Give strong drink to the grieving, and wine to those who are bitter in soul.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let them drink, and forget their needs, and remember their sorrow no more.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Open your mouth for the mute and for all the cases of the sons who are passing through.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Open your mouth, declare what is just, and do justice to the indigent and the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who shall find a strong woman? Far away, and from the furthest parts, is her price.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The heart of her husband confides in her, and he will not be deprived of spoils.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> She will repay him with good, and not evil, all the days of her life.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> She has sought wool and flax, and she has worked these by the counsel of her hands.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> She has become like a merchant's ship, bringing her bread from far away.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And she has risen in the night, and given a prey to her household, and provisions to her maids.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> She has considered a field and bought it. From the fruit of her own hands, she has planted a vineyard.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> She has wrapped her waist with fortitude, and she has strengthened her arm.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> She has tasted and seen that her tasks are good; her lamp shall not be extinguished at night.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> She has put her hand to strong things, and her fingers have taken hold of the spindle.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> She has opened her hand to the needy, and she has extended her hands to the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> She shall not fear, in the cold of snow, for her household. For all those of her household have been clothed two-fold.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> She has made embroidered clothing for herself. Fine linen and purple is her garment.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Her husband is noble at the gates, when he sits among the senators of the land.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> She has made finely woven cloth and sold it, and she has delivered a waistband to the Canaanite.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Strength and elegance are her clothing, and she will laugh in the final days.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> She has opened her mouth to wisdom, and the law of clemency is on her tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> She has considered the paths of her household, and she has not eaten her bread in idleness.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Her sons rose up and predicted great happiness; her husband rose up and praised her.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Many daughters have gathered together riches; you have surpassed them all.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Charm is false, and beauty is vain. The woman who fears the Lord, the same shall be praised.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Give to her from the fruit of her own hands. And let her works praise her at the gates.</p>

</body>
</html>