<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> It is for man to prepare the soul, and for the Lord to govern the tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> All the ways of a man are open to his eyes; the Lord is the one who weighs spirits.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Open your works to the Lord, and your intentions will be set in order.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The Lord has wrought all things because of himself. Likewise the impious is for the evil day.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> All the arrogant are an abomination to the Lord. Even if hand will be joined to hand, he is not innocent. The beginning of a good way is to do justice. And this is more acceptable with God than to immolate sacrifices.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> By mercy and truth, iniquity is redeemed. And by the fear of the Lord, one turns away from evil.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When the ways of man will please the Lord, he will convert even his enemies to peace.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Better is a little with justice, than many fruits with iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The heart of man disposes his way. But it is for Lord to direct his steps.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Foreknowledge is in the lips of the king. His mouth shall not err in judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Weights and scales are judgments of the Lord. And all the stones in the bag are his work.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Those who act impiously are abominable to the king. For the throne is made firm by justice.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Just lips are the will of kings. He who speaks honestly shall be loved.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The indignation of a king is a herald of death. And the wise man will appease it.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> In the cheerfulness of the king's countenance, there is life. And his clemency is like belated rain.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Possess wisdom, for it is better than gold. And acquire prudence, for it is more precious than silver.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The path of the just turns away from evils. He who guards his soul preserves his way.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Arrogance precedes destruction. And the spirit is exalted before a fall.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> It is better to be humbled with the meek, than to divide spoils with the arrogant.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The learned in word shall find good things. And whoever hopes in the Lord is blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Whoever is wise in heart shall be called prudent. And whoever is sweet in eloquence shall attain to what is greater.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Learning is a fountain of life to one who possesses it. The doctrine of the foolish is senseless.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The heart of the wise shall instruct his mouth and add grace to his lips.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Careful words are a honeycomb: sweet to the soul and healthful to the bones.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> There is a way which seems right to a man, and its end result leads to death.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The soul of the laborer labors for himself, because his mouth has driven him to it.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The impious man digs up evil, and in his lips is a burning fire.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A perverse man stirs up lawsuits. And one who is verbose divides leaders.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> A man of iniquity entices his friend, and he leads him along a way that is not good.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Whoever, with astonished eyes, thinks up depravities, biting his lips, accomplishes evil.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Old age is a crown of dignity, when it is found in the ways of justice.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> A patient man is better than a strong one. And whoever rules his soul is better than one who assaults cities.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Lots are cast into the lap, but they are tempered by the Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>