<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Whoever has a will to withdraw from a friend, seeks occasions; he shall be reproached at all times.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The foolish do not accept words of prudence, unless you say what is already turning in his heart.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The impious, when he has arrived within the depths of sin, thinks little of it. But ill repute and disgrace follow him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Words from the mouth of a man are deep waters. And the fountain of wisdom is a torrent overflowing.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> It is not good to accept the character of the impious, so as to turn away from true judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The lips of the foolish meddle in disputes. And his mouth provokes conflicts.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The mouth of the foolish is his destruction, and his own lips are the ruin of his soul.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The words of the double-tongued seem simple. And they reach even to the interior of the gut. Fear casts down the lazy, but the souls of the effeminate shall go hungry.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whoever is dissolute and slack in his work is the brother of him who wastes his own works.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The name of the Lord is very strong tower. The just one rushes to it, and he shall be exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The substance of the wealthy is the city of his strength, and it is like a strong wall encircling him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The heart of a man is exalted before it is crushed and humbled before it is glorified.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoever responds before he listens, demonstrates himself to be foolish and deserving of confusion.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The spirit of a man sustains his weakness. Yet who can sustain a spirit that is easily angered?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A prudent heart shall possess knowledge. And the ear of the wise seeks doctrine.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A man's gift expands his way and makes space for him before leaders.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The just is the first accuser of himself; his friend arrives and shall investigate him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Casting a lot suppresses contentions and passes judgment, even among the powerful.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A brother who is helped by a brother is like a reinforced city, and judgments are like the bars of cities.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> From the fruit of a man's mouth shall his belly be filled. And the harvest of his own lips shall satisfy him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Death and life are in the power of the tongue. Whoever values it shall eat from its fruits.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He who has found a good wife has found goodness, and he shall draw contentment from the Lord. He who expels a good wife expels goodness. But he who holds on to an adulteress is foolish and impious.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The poor will speak with supplications. And the rich will express themselves roughly.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> A man amiable to society shall be more friendly than a brother.</p>

</body>
</html>