<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the manner of snow in the summer, and rain at the harvest, so also is glory unfit for the foolish.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Like a bird flying away to another place, and like a sparrow that hurries away freely, so also a curse uttered against someone without cause will pass away.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A whip is for a horse, and a muzzle is for donkey, and a rod is for the back of the imprudent.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Do not respond to the foolish according to his folly, lest you become like him.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Respond to the foolish according to his folly, lest he imagine himself to be wise.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whoever sends words by a foolish messenger has lame feet and drinks iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In the manner of a lame man who has beautiful legs to no purpose, so also is a parable unfit for the mouth of the foolish.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Just like one who casts a stone into the pile of Mercury, so also is he who gives honor to the foolish.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In the manner of a thorn, if it were to spring up from the hand of a drunkard, so also is a parable in the mouth of the foolish.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Judgment determines cases. And whoever imposes silence on the foolish mitigates anger.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Like a dog that returns to his vomit, so also is the imprudent who repeats his foolishness.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Have you seen a man who seems wise to himself? There will be greater hope held for the unwise than for him.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The lazy one says, "There is a lion along the way, and a lioness in the roads."</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Just as a door turns upon its hinges, so also does the lazy one turn upon his bed.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The lazy one conceals his hand under his arms, and it is a labor for him to move it to his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The lazy one seems wiser to himself than seven men speaking judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Just like one who takes hold of a dog by the ears, so also is he who crosses impatiently and meddles in the quarrels of another.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Just as he is guilty who let loose the arrows and the lances unto death,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> so also is the man who harms his friend by deceitfulness. And when he has been apprehended, he says, "I did it jokingly."</p>

<p><a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> When the wood fails, the fire will be extinguished. And when the gossiper is taken away, conflicts will be quelled.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Just as charcoals are to burning coals, and wood is to fire, so also is an angry man who stirs up quarrels.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The words of a whisperer seem simple, but they penetrate to the innermost parts of the self.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In the same manner as an earthen vessel, if it were adorned with impure silver, conceited lips are allied with a wicked heart.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> An enemy is known by his lips, though it is from his heart that he draws out deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When he will have lowered his voice, do not believe him, for there are seven vices in his heart.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Whoever covers hatred with deceit, his malice shall be revealed in the assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whoever digs a pit will fall into it. And whoever rolls a stone, it will roll back to him.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A false tongue does not love truth. And a slippery mouth works ruin.</p>

</body>
</html>