<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, do not forget my law, but let your heart guard my precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For they shall set before you length of days, and years of life, and peace.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let not mercy and truth abandon you: encircle them around your throat, and inscribe them on the tablets of your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And so shall you discover grace and good discipline, in the sight of God and men.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Have confidence in the Lord with all your heart, and do not depend upon your own prudence.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In all your ways, consider him, and he himself will direct your steps.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Do not seem wise to yourself. Fear God, and withdraw from evil.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Certainly, it shall be health to your navel, and refreshment to your bones.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Honor the Lord with your substance, and give to him from the first of all your fruits,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and then your storehouses will be filled with abundance, and your presses shall overflow with wine.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My son, do not discard the discipline of the Lord, and do not fall away when you are corrected by him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For whomever the Lord loves, he corrects, and just as a father does with a son, he wins him over.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Blessed is the man who finds wisdom and who advances to prudence.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Her acquisition is better than trading in silver, and her fruit is better than the first and purest gold.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> She is more precious than all riches, and all that can be desired cannot prevail in comparison to her.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Length of days is at her right hand, and at her left hand is wealth and glory.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Her ways are beautiful ways, and all her paths are peaceful.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> She is a tree of life to those who overtake her, and he who shall take hold of her is blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The Lord founded the earth on wisdom. He secured the heavens with prudence.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> By his wisdom, the abyss erupted and the clouds increased with dew.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> My son, let not these things move away from your eyes. Preserve law as well as counsel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And so shall there be life in your soul and grace in your voice.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then you shall walk confidently in your way, and your feet will not stumble.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When you slumber, you shall not fear. When you rest, your sleep also will be sweet.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Do not fear unexpected terror, nor the power of the impious falling upon you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For the Lord will be at your side, and he will guard your feet, so that you may not be seized.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Do not prevent him who is able from doing good. When you are able, do good yourself too.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Do not say to your friend: "Go away, and then return. Tomorrow I will give to you." When you are able to do so, give in the present.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Do not undertake evil against your friend, even though he has trust in you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Do not contend against a man without cause, even though he has done no evil to you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Do not rival an unjust man, and do not imitate his ways.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For everyone who ridicules is an abomination to the Lord, and his communication is for the simple.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Destitution in the house of the impious is from the Lord. But the habitations of the just shall be blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He will ridicule those who ridicule, but he will bestow grace upon the mild.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The wise will possess glory. The exaltation of the foolish is disgraceful.</p>

</body>
</html>