<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A mild response shatters anger. But a harsh word stirs up fury.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The tongue of the wise adorns knowledge. But the mouth of the senseless gushes with foolishness.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In every place, the eyes of the Lord consider good and evil.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A peaceful tongue is a tree of life. But that which is immoderate will crush the spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A fool laughs at the discipline of his father. But whoever preserves rebukes will become astute. In abundant justice, there is very great virtue. But the intentions of the impious will be eradicated.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The house of the just has very great strength. And in the fruits of the impious, there is disorder.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The lips of the wise shall disseminate knowledge. The heart of the foolish will be dissimilar.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The sacrifices of the impious are abominable to the Lord. The vows of the just are appeasing.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The way of the impious is an abomination to the Lord. Whoever pursues justice is loved by him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Doctrine is evil to those who abandon the way of life. Whoever hates correction shall die.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Hell and perdition are in the sight of the Lord. How much more the hearts of the sons of men!</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He who corrupts himself does not love the one who afflicts him, nor will he step toward the wise.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A rejoicing heart gladdens the face. But by the grief of the soul, the spirit is cast down.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The heart of the wise seeks doctrine. And the mouth of the foolish feeds on ignorance.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All the days of the poor are evil. A secure mind is like a continual feast.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Better is a little with the fear of the Lord, than great treasures and dissatisfaction.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> It is better to be called to vegetables with charity, than to a fatted calf with hatred.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A short-tempered man provokes conflicts. Whoever is patient tempers those who are stirred up.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The way of the slothful is like a hedge of thorns. The way of the just is without offense.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A wise son gladdens the father. But the foolish man despises his mother.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Folly is gladness to the foolish. And the prudent man sets his own steps in order.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Intentions dissipate where there is no counsel. Yet truly, they are confirmed where there are many counselors.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> A man rejoices in the verdict of his own mouth. And a word at the right time is best.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The path of life is for the wise above, so that he may turn away from the end of Hell.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The Lord will demolish the house of the arrogant. And He will make firm the borders of the widow.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Evil intentions are an abomination to the Lord. And pure conversation, most beautiful, shall be confirmed by him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whoever pursues avarice disturbs his own house. But whoever hates bribes shall live. Through mercy and faith, sins are purged. But through the fear of the Lord, each one turns aside from evil.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The mind of the just meditates on obedience. The mouth of the impious overflows with evils.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The Lord is distant from the impious. And he will heed the prayers of the just.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The light of the eyes rejoices the soul. A good reputation fattens the bones.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The ear that listens to the reproofs of life shall abide in the midst of the wise.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Whoever rejects discipline despises his own soul. But whoever agrees to correction is a possessor of the heart.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The fear of the Lord is the discipline of wisdom. And humility precedes glory.</p>

</body>
</html>