<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A dry morsel with gladness is better than a house full of sacrifices along with conflict.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A wise servant shall rule over foolish sons, and he will divide the inheritance among brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Just as silver is tested by fire, and gold is tested in the furnace, so also does the Lord test hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The evil obey an unjust tongue. And the false are submissive to lying lips.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Whoever despises the poor rebukes his Maker. And whoever rejoices in the ruin of another will not go unpunished.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Sons of sons are the crown of old age. And the glory of sons is their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Well-chosen words are not fitting for the foolish, nor are lying lips fitting for a leader.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The expectation of those who stand ready is a most pleasing jewel. Whichever way he turns himself, he understands prudently.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whoever conceals an offense seeks friendships. Whoever repeats the words of another separates allies.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A correction benefits more with a wise man, than a hundred stripes with a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The evil one continually seeks conflicts. But a cruel Angel shall be sent against him.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> It is more expedient to meet a bear robbed of her young, than the foolish trusting in his own folly.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoever repays evil for good, evil shall not withdraw from his house.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Whoever releases the water is the head of the conflict. And just before he suffers contempt, he abandons judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Those who justify the impious, and those who condemn the just, both are abominable with God.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> What does it profit the foolish to have riches, when he is not able to buy wisdom? Whoever makes his house high seeks ruin. And whoever shuns learning shall fall into evils.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Whoever is a friend loves at all times. And a brother is proved by distress.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A foolish man will clap his hands, when he makes a pledge for his friend.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Whoever dwells on discord loves disputes. And whoever exalts his door seeks ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whoever is of a perverse heart shall not find good. And whoever turns his tongue shall fall into evil.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> A foolish one is born into his own disgrace. But his father will not rejoice in one who is senseless.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A joyful soul makes a lifetime flourish. A gloomy spirit dries out the bones.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The impious receives gifts from the bosom, so that he may pervert the paths of judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Prudence shines from the face of the wise. The eyes of the foolish are on the ends of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> A foolish son is the anger of the father and the grief of the mother who conceived him.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> It is not good to inflict damage on the just, nor to strike the leader who judges uprightly.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whoever moderates his words is learned and prudent. And a man of learning has a precious spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> If he would remain silent, even the foolish would be considered wise, and if he closes his lips, intelligent.</p>

</body>
</html>