<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Listen, sons, to the discipline of a father, and pay attention, so that you may know prudence.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will bestow upon you a good gift. Do not relinquish my law.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I, too, was the son of my father, tender and an only son in the sight of my mother.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he taught me, and he also said: "Let your heart accept my words. Keep my precepts, and you shall live.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Obtain wisdom, obtain prudence. May you neither forget, nor turn away from, the words of my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Do not send her away, and she will guard you. Love her, and she will preserve you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The beginning of wisdom is to obtain wisdom, and, with all that you possess, to acquire prudence.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Grasp her, and she will exalt you. You will be glorified by her, when you have embraced her.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> She will bestow upon your head an increase in graces, and she will protect you with a noble crown.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Listen, my son, and accept my words, so that years of life may be multiplied for you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will demonstrate to you the way of wisdom. I will lead you along the paths of equity.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When you have entered by these, your steps will not be constrained, and when running, you will have no obstacle.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Take hold of discipline. Do not dismiss it. Guard it, for it is your life.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Do not delight in the paths of the impious, nor permit the way of evil-doers to please you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Take flight from it. Do not pass close to it. Turn away and abandon it.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For they do not sleep, unless they have done evil. And their sleep is quickly taken away from them, unless they have overthrown.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They eat the bread of impiety, and they drink the wine of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But the path of the just is like a shining light: it advances and increases, even to the day of completion.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The way of the impious is darkened. They do not know where they may fall.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My son, pay attention to my sermons, and incline your ear to my eloquent words.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let them not recede from your eyes. Keep them in the midst of your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For they are life to those who find them and health to all that is flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Preserve your heart with all watchfulness, for life proceeds from this.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Remove from yourself a corrupt mouth, and let detracting lips be far from you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let your eyes look straight ahead, and let your eyelids precede your steps.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Direct the path of your feet, and all your ways shall be secure.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Turn aside, neither to the right, nor to the left; yet turn your foot away from evil. For the Lord knows the ways that are on the right, and truly, those that are on the left are perverse. But he himself will make your courses straight. Then your journey will advance in peace.</p>

</body>
</html>