<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Just as with the dividing of the waters, so also is the heart of the king in the hand of the Lord. He shall bend it whichever way he wills.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Every way of a man seems right to himself. But the Lord weighs hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> To do mercy and judgment is more pleasing to the Lord than sacrifices.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> To lift up the eyes is to enlarge the heart. The lamp of the impious is sin.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The intentions of the robust continually bring forth abundance. But all the lazy are continually in need.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whoever gathers treasures by a lying tongue is vain and heartless. And he will stumble into the snares of death.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The robberies of the impious will drag them down, because they were not willing to do judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The perverse way of a man is foreign. But whoever is pure: his work is upright.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It is better to sit in a corner of the attic, than with a contentious woman and in a shared house.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The soul of the impious desires evil; he will not take pity on his neighbor.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When the pestilent is punished, a little one will become wiser. And if he pursues what is wise, he will receive knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The just thinks carefully about the house of the impious, so that he may draw the impious away from evil.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoever blocks his ears to the outcry of the poor shall also cry out himself, and he will not be heeded.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A surprise gift extinguishes anger. And a gift concealed in the bosom extinguishes the greatest indignation.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It is gladness for the just to do judgment; and it is dread for those who work iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A man who wanders astray from the way of doctrine will linger in the company of the giants.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Whoever loves a feast will be in deprivation. Whoever loves wine and fatness will not be enriched.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The impious is given over instead of the just, and the iniquitous is given over in place of the upright.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> It is better to live in a deserted land, than with a quarrelsome and emotional woman.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> There is desirable treasure, as well as oil, in the habitations of the just. And the imprudent man will waste it.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Whoever follows justice and mercy shall discover life, justice, and glory.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The wise has ascended the city of the strong, and he has torn down the bulwark of its confidence.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whoever guards his mouth and his tongue guards his soul from anguish.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> A proud and arrogant one is also called ignorant, if he, in anger, acts according to pride.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Desires kill the lazy, for his hands are not willing to work at all.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He covets and desires all day long. But whoever is just shall distribute and shall not cease.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The sacrifices of the impious are abominable, because they are offered out of wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A lying witness will perish. An obedient man shall speak of victory.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The impious man insolently hardens his face. But whoever is upright corrects his own way.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> There is no wisdom, there is no prudence, there is no counsel, which is against the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The horse is prepared for the day of battle. But the Lord bestows salvation.</p>

</body>
</html>