<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Remember your Creator in the days of your youth, before the time of affliction arrives and the years draw near, about which you will say, "These do not please me."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Before the sun, and the light, and the moon, and the stars are darkened and the clouds return after the rain,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> when the guardians of the house will tremble, and the strongest men will waver, and those who grind grain will be idle, except for a small number, and those who look through the keyholes will be darkened.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they will close the doors to the street, when the voice of he who grinds the grain will be humbled, and they will be disturbed at the sound of a flying thing, and all the daughters of song shall become deaf.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Likewise, they will fear the things above them, and they will dread the way. The almond tree will flourish; the locust will be fattened; and the caper plant will scattered, because man shall go into the house of his eternity, and the mourners shall wander around in the street.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Before the silver cord is broken, and the golden band pulls away, and the pitcher is crushed over the fountain, and the wheel is broken above the cistern,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and the dust returns to its earth, from which it was, and the spirit returns to God, who granted it.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Vanity of vanities, said Ecclesiastes, and all is vanity!</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And since Ecclesiastes was very wise, he taught the people, and he described what he had accomplished. And while searching, he composed many parables.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He sought useful words, and he wrote most righteous words, which were full of truth.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The words of the wise are like a goad, and like nails deeply fastened, which, through the counsel of teachers, are set forth by one pastor.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You should require no more than this, my son. For there is no end to the making of many books. And excessive study is an affliction to the flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let us all listen together to the end of the discourse. Fear God, and observe his commandments. This is everything for man.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And so, for all that is done and for each error, God will bring judgment: whether it was good or evil.</p>

</body>
</html>