<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Why is it necessary for a man to seek things that are greater than himself, when he does not know what is advantageous for himself in his life, during the number of the days of his sojourn, and while time passes by like a shadow? Or who will be able to tell him what will be in the future after him under the sun?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A good name is better than precious ointments, and a day of death is better than a day of birth.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> It is better to go to a house of mourning, than to a house of feasting. For in the former, we are admonished about the end of all things, so that the living consider what may be in the future.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Anger is better than laughter. For through the sadness of the countenance, the soul of one who offends may be corrected.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The heart of the wise is a place of mourning, and the heart of the foolish is a place of rejoicing.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> It is better to be corrected by a wise man, than to be deceived by the false praise of the foolish.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For, like the crackling of thorns burning under a pot, so is the laughter of the foolish. But this, too, is emptiness.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A false accusation troubles the wise man and saps the strength of his heart.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The end of a speech is better than the beginning. Patience is better than arrogance.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Do not be quickly moved to anger. For anger resides in the sinews of the foolish.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You should not say: "What do you think is the reason that the former times were better than they are now?" For this type of question is foolish.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wisdom with riches is more useful and more advantageous, for those who see the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For as wisdom protects, so also does money protect. But learning and wisdom have this much more: that they grant life to one who possesses them.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Consider the works of God, that no one is able to correct whomever he has despised.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> In good times, enjoy good things, but beware of an evil time. For just as God has establish the one, so also the other, in order that man may not find any just complaint against him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I also saw this, in the days of my vanity: a just man perishing in his justice, and an impious man living a long time in his malice.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Do not try to be overly just, and do not try to be more wise than is necessary, lest you become stupid.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Do not act with great impiety, and do not choose to be foolish, lest you die before your time.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> It is good for you to support a just man. Furthermore, you should not withdraw your hand from him, for whoever fears God, neglects nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Wisdom has strengthened the wise more than ten princes of a city.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But there is no just man on earth, who does good and does not sin.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So then, do not attach your heart to every word that is spoken, lest perhaps you may hear your servant speaking ill of you.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For your conscience knows that you, too, have repeatedly spoken evil of others.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I have tested everything in wisdom. I have said: "I will be wise." And wisdom withdrew farther from me,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> so much more than it was before. Wisdom is very profound, so who shall reveal her?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I have examined all things in my soul, so that I may know, and consider, and seek out wisdom and reason, and so that I may recognize the impiety of the foolish, and the error of the imprudent.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And I have discovered a woman more bitter than death: she who is like the snare of a hunter, and whose heart is like a net, and whose hands are like chains. Whoever pleases God shall flee from her. But whoever is a sinner shall be seized by her.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Behold, Ecclesiastes said, I have discovered these things, one after another, in order that I might discover the explanation</p>

<p><a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> which my soul still seeks and has not found. One man among a thousand, I have found; a woman among them all, I have not found.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> This alone have I discovered: that God made man righteous, and yet he has adulterated himself with innumerable questions. Who is so great as the wise? And who has understood the meaning of the word?</p>

</body>
</html>