<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> You should not speak anything rashly, nor should your heart be hasty to present a word before God. For God is in heaven, and you are on earth. For this reason, let your words be few.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Dreams follow many worries, and in many words foolishness will be found.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If you have vowed anything to God, you should not delay to repay it. And whatever you have vowed, render it. But an unfaithful and foolish promise displeases him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And it is much better not to make a vow, than, after a vow, not to fulfill what was promised.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You should not use your mouth so as to cause your flesh to sin. And you should not say, in the sight of an Angel, "There is no Providence." For God, being angry at your words, may scatter all the works of your hands.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Where there are many dreams, there are many vanities and innumerable words. Yet truly, you must fear God.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If you see false accusations against the indigent, and violent judgments, and subverted justice in the government, do not be surprised over this situation. For those in high places have others who are higher, and there are still others, more eminent, over these.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But finally, there is the King who rules over the entire earth, which is subject to him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A greedy man will not be satisfied by money. And whoever loves wealth will reap no fruit from it. Therefore, this, too, is emptiness.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Where there are many riches, there will also be many to consume these things. And how does it benefit the one who possesses, except that he discerns the wealth with his own eyes?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Sleep is sweet to one who works, whether he consumes little or much. But the satiation of a wealthy man will not permit him to sleep.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There is even another most burdensome infirmity, which I have seen under the sun: wealth kept to the harm of the owner.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For they are lost in a most grievous affliction. He has produced a son, who will be in the utmost destitution.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Just as he went forth naked from his mother's womb, so shall he return, and he shall take nothing with him from his labors.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It is an utterly miserable infirmity that, in the same manner as he has arrived, so shall he return. How then does it benefit him, since he has labored for the wind?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> All the days of his life he consumes: in darkness, and with many worries, and in distress as well as sadness.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And so, this has seemed good to me: that a person should eat and drink, and should enjoy the fruits of his labor, in which he has toiled under the sun, for the number of the days of his life that God has given him. For this is his portion.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And this is a gift from God: that every man to whom God has given wealth and resources, and to whom he has granted the ability to consume these, may enjoy his portion, and may find joy in his labors.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And then he will not fully remember the days of his life, because God occupies his heart with delights.</p>

</body>
</html>