<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Dying flies ruin the sweetness of the ointment. Wisdom and glory is more precious than a brief and limited foolishness.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The heart of a wise man is in his right hand, and the heart of a foolish man is in his left hand.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Moreover, as a foolish man is walking along the way, even though he himself is unwise, he considers everyone to be foolish.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If the spirit of one who holds authority rises over you, do not leave your place, because attentiveness will cause the greatest sins to cease.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, proceeding from the presence of a prince, as if by mistake:</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> a foolish man appointed to a high dignity, and the rich sitting beneath him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I have seen servants on horses, and princes walking on the ground like servants.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Whoever digs a pit will fall into it. And whoever tears apart a hedge, a snake will bite him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whoever carries away stones will be harmed by them. And whoever cuts down trees will be wounded by them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If the iron is dull, and if it was not that way before, but has been made dull by much labor, then it will be sharpened. And wisdom will follow after diligence.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Whoever slanders in secret is nothing less than a snake that bites silently.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Words from the mouth of a wise man are graceful, but the lips of a foolish man will throw him down with violence.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> At the beginning of his words is foolishness, and at the end of his talk is a most grievous error.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The fool multiplies his words. A man does not know what has been before him, and who is able to reveal to him what will be in the future after him?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The hardship of the foolish will afflict those who do not know to go into the city.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Woe to you, the land whose king is a boy, and whose princes consume in the morning.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Blessed is the land whose king is noble, and whose princes eat at the proper time, for refreshment and not for self-indulgence.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> By laziness, a framework shall be brought down, and by the weakness of hands, a house shall collapse through.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> While laughing, they make bread and wine, so that the living may feast. And all things are obedient to money.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You should not slander the king, even in your thoughts, and you should not speak evil of a wealthy man, even in your private chamber. For even the birds of the air will carry your voice, and whatever has wings will announce your opinion.</p>

</body>
</html>