<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bride: May my beloved enter into his garden, and eat the fruit of his apple trees.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Groom to Bride: I have arrived in my garden, O my sister, my spouse. I have harvested my myrrh, with my aromatic oils. I have eaten the honeycomb with my honey. I have drunk my wine with my milk. Eat, O friends, and drink, and be inebriated, O most beloved.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Bride: I sleep, yet my heart watches. The voice of my beloved knocking:</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Groom to Bride: Open to me, my sister, my love, my dove, my immaculate one. For my head is full of dew, and the locks of my hair are full of the drops of the night.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Bride: I have taken off my tunic; how shall I be clothed in it? I have washed my feet; how shall I spoil them?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My beloved put his hand through the window, and my inner self was moved by his touch.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I rose up in order to open to my beloved. My hands dripped with myrrh, and my fingers were full of the finest myrrh.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I opened the bolt of my door to my beloved. But he had turned aside and had gone away. My soul melted when he spoke. I sought him, and did not find him. I called, and he did not answer me.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The keepers who circulate through the city found me. They struck me, and wounded me. The keepers of the walls took my veil away from me.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I bind you by oath, O daughters of Jerusalem, if you find my beloved, announce to him that I languish through love.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Chorus to Bride: What kind of beloved is your beloved, O most beautiful among women? What kind of beloved is your beloved, so that you would bind us by oath?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Bride: My beloved is white and ruddy, elect among thousands.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His head is like the finest gold. His locks are like the heights of palm trees, and as black as a raven.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> His eyes are like doves, which have been washed with milk over rivulets of waters, and which reside near plentiful streams.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> His cheeks are like a courtyard of aromatic plants, sown by perfumers. His lips are like lilies, dripping with the best myrrh.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> His hands are smoothed gold, full of hyacinths. His abdomen is ivory, accented with sapphires.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His legs are columns of marble, which have been established over bases of gold. His appearance is like that of Lebanon, elect like the cedars.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His throat is most sweet, and he is entirely desirable. Such is my beloved, and he is my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Chorus to Bride: Where has your beloved gone, O most beautiful among women? To where has your beloved turned aside, so that we may seek him with you?</p>

</body>
</html>