<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bride: I am a flower of the open field and a lily of the steep valleys.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Groom: Like a lily among the thorns, so is my loved one among the daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Bride to Chorus: Like an apple tree among the trees of the forest, so is my beloved among the sons. I sat beneath the shadow of the one whom I desired, and his fruit was sweet to my palate.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He brought me into the storeroom of wine. He set charity in order within me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Prop me up with flowers. Close me in with apples. For I languish through love.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> His left hand is under my head, and his right hand shall embrace me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Groom to Chorus: I bind you by oath, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the does and the stags of the open field, not to disturb or awaken the beloved, even for as long as she wills.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Bride to Chorus: The voice of my beloved! Behold, he arrives leaping along the mountains, jumping across the hills.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My beloved is like a doe and like a young stag.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Lo, he stands beyond our wall, gazing through the windows, watching through the lattices.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Lo, my beloved speaks to me:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Groom to Bride: Rise up, quickly, my love, my dove, my shapely one, and advance.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For winter has now past; the rain has decreased and gone away.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The flowers have appeared in our land; the time for pruning has arrived. The voice of the turtledove has been heard in our land.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The fig tree has brought forth its green figs; the flowering vines bestow their odor. Rise up, my love, my brilliant one, and advance.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> My dove in the clefts of the rock, in the hollows of the wall, reveal to me your face. Let your voice sound in my ears. For your voice is sweet, and your face is graceful.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Chorus to Groom and Bride: Capture for us the little foxes, which are tearing down the vines; for our vineyard has flourished.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Bride to Chorus: My beloved is for me, and I am for him. He pastures among the lilies, until the day rises and the shadows decline.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Bride to Groom: Return, O my beloved. Be like a doe and like a young stag upon the mountains of Bether.</p>

</body>
</html>