<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bride: My beloved has descended to his garden, to the courtyard of aromatic plants, in order to pasture in the gardens and gather the lilies.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I am for my beloved, and my beloved is for me. He pastures among the lilies.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Groom to Bride: My love, you are beautiful: sweet and graceful, like Jerusalem; terrible, like an army in battle array.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Avert your eyes from me, for they have caused me fly away. Your hair is like a flock of goats, which have appeared out of Gilead.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Your teeth are like a flock of sheep, which have ascended from the washing, each one with its identical twin, and not one among them is barren.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Like the skin of a pomegranate, so are your cheeks, except for your hiddenness.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There are sixty queens, and eighty concubines, and maidens without number.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> One is my dove, my perfect one. One is her mother; elect is she who bore her. The daughters saw her, and they proclaimed her most blessed. The queens and concubines saw her, and they praised her.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Chorus to Groom: Who is she, who advances like the rising dawn, as beautiful as the moon, as elect as the sun, as terrible as an army in battle array?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Bride: I descended to the garden of nuts, in order to see the fruits of the steep valleys, and to examine whether the vineyard had flourished and the pomegranates had produced buds.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I did not understand. My soul was stirred up within me because of the chariots of Amminadab.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Chorus to Bride: Return, return, O Sulamitess. Return, return, so that we may consider you.</p>

</body>
</html>