<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bride: May he kiss me with the kiss of his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Groom to Bride: So much better than wine are your breasts, fragranced with the finest perfumes.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Bride to Groom: Your name is oil that has been poured out; therefore, the maidens have loved you. Draw me forward.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Chorus to Bride: We will run after you in the odor of your perfumes.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Bride to Chorus: The king has led me into his storerooms.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Chorus to Bride: We will exult and rejoice in you, remembering your breasts above wine.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Groom to Bride: The righteous love you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Bride to Chorus: O daughters of Jerusalem: I am black, but shapely, like the tabernacles of Kedar, like the tents of Solomon.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Do not be concerned that I am dark, for the sun has changed my color.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The sons of my mother have fought against me. They have made me the keeper of the vineyards. My own vineyard I have not kept.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Bride to Groom: Reveal to me, you whom my soul loves, where you pasture, where you recline at midday, lest I begin to wander after the flocks of your companions.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Groom to Bride: If you yourself do not know, O most beautiful among women, then go out and follow after the steps of the flocks, and pasture your young goats beside the tabernacles of the shepherds.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O my love, I have compared you to my company of horsemen against the chariots of Pharaoh.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Your cheeks are beautiful, like those of a turtledove. Your neck is like a bejeweled collar.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Chorus to Bride: We will fashion for you chains of gold, accented with reddened silver.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Bride to Chorus: While the king was taking his rest, my aromatic ointment sent forth its odor.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> My beloved is a bundle of myrrh to me. He shall abide between my breasts.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> My beloved is a cluster of Cyprus grapes to me, in the vineyards of Engaddi.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Groom to Bride: Behold, you are beautiful, O my love. Behold, you are beautiful. Your eyes are those of a dove.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Bride to Groom: Behold, you are handsome, O my beloved, and graceful. Our bed is flourishing.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Groom to Bride: The timbers of our houses are of cedar; our ceilings are of cypress.</p>

</body>
</html>