<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bride to Groom: Who will give you to me as my brother, feeding from the breasts of my mother, so that I may discover you outside, and may kiss you, and so that now no one may despise me?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will take hold of you and lead you into my mother's house. There you will teach me, and I will give you a cup of spiced wine, and of new wine from my pomegranates.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> His left hand is under my head, and his right hand shall embrace me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Groom to Chorus: I bind you by oath, O daughters of Jerusalem, not to disturb or awaken the beloved, until she wills.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Chorus to Groom: Who is she, who ascends from the desert, flowing with delights, leaning upon her beloved?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Groom to Bride: Under the apple tree, I awakened you. There your mother was corrupted. There she who bore you was violated.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Set me like a seal upon your heart, like a seal upon your arm. For love is strong, like death, and envy is enduring, like hell: their lamps are made of fire and flames.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A multitude of waters cannot extinguish love, nor can a river overwhelm it. If a man were to give all the substance of his house in exchange for love, he would despise it as nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Chorus: Our sister is little and has no breasts. What shall we do for our sister on the day when she is called upon?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If she is a wall, let us build a rampart of silver upon it. If she is a door, let us join it together with boards of cedar.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Bride to Chorus: I am a wall, and my breasts are like towers, since, in his presence, I have become like one who has discovered peace.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The peaceful one had a vineyard, in that which held the peoples. He handed it on to the caretakers; a man brought, in exchange for its fruit, a thousand pieces of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Groom: My vineyard is before me. The thousand is for your peacefulness, and two hundred is for those who care for its fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Bride to Groom: Your friends are attentive to those who have been dwelling in the gardens. Cause me to heed your voice.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Flee away, my beloved, and become like the doe and the young stag upon the mountains of aromatic plants.</p>

</body>
</html>