<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Chorus to Groom: What will you see in the Sulamitess, other than choruses of encampments?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Chorus to Bride: How beautiful are your footsteps in shoes, O daughter of a ruler! The joints of your thighs are like jewels, which have been fabricated by the hand of an artist.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Your navel is a round bowl, never lacking in curvature. Your abdomen is like a bundle of wheat, surrounded with lilies.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Your two breasts are like two young twin does.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Your neck is like a tower of ivory. Your eyes like the fish ponds at Heshbon, which are at the entrance to the daughter of the multitude. Your nose is like the tower of Lebanon, which looks out toward Damascus.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Your head is like Carmel, and the hairs of your head are like the purple of the king, bound into pleats.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Most beloved one, how beautiful you are, and how graceful in delights!</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Your stature is comparable to the palm tree, and your breasts to clusters of grapes.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Groom: I said, I will ascend to the palm tree, and take hold of its fruit. And your breasts will be like clusters of grapes on the vine. And the fragrance of your mouth will be like apples.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Bride: Your throat is like the finest wine: wine worthy for my beloved to drink, and for his lips and teeth to contemplate.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I am for my beloved, and his turning is to me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Approach, my beloved. Let us go out into the field; let us linger in the villages.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let us go up in the morning to the vineyards; let us see if the vineyard has flourished, if the flowers are ready to bear fruit, if the pomegranates have flourished. There I will give my breasts to you.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The mandrakes yield their fragrance. At our gates is every fruit. The new and the old, my beloved, I have kept for you.</p>

</body>
</html>