<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to you who plunder! Will you yourselves not also be plundered? And woe to you who despise! Will you yourselves not also be despised? When you will have completed your plundering, you will be plundered. When, out of fatigue, you will have ceased acting with contempt, you will be treated with contempt.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O Lord, take pity on us. For we have waited for you. Be our arm in the morning and our salvation in the time of tribulation.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> From the voice of the Angel, the people fled. And from your exultation, the nations were scattered.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And your spoils will be gathered together, just as the locusts are collected when the ditches have become filled with them.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The Lord has been magnified, because he has lived on high. He has filled Zion with judgment and justice.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And there will be faith in your times: the riches of salvation, wisdom and knowledge. For the fear of the Lord is his treasure.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, outside, those who see will cry out. The Angels of peace will weep bitterly.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The roads have become desolate. Travelers have ceased along the paths. The covenant has been nullified. He has tossed aside cities. He has disregarded men.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The earth has mourned and languished. Lebanon has been confounded and desecrated. And Sharon has become like a desert. And Bashan and Carmel have been struck together.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> "Now, I will rise up!" says the Lord. "Now I will be exalted! Now I will lift myself up!"</p>

<p><a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You will conceive heat. You will give birth to stubble. Your own spirit will devour you like fire.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the people will be like the ashes from a fire. They will be consumed by fire like a bundle of thorns.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> "You who are far away, listen to what I have done! And you who are near, acknowledge my strength!"</p>

<p><a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The sinners in Zion are terrified; trembling has taken hold of the hypocrites. Who among you is able to live with a devouring fire? Who among you will live with an everlasting flame?</p>

<p><a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The one who walks in justice and speaks the truth, who casts out avarice with oppression and shakes all bribes from his hands, who blocks his ears so that he may not listen to blood, and closes his eyes so that he may not see evil.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Such a one will live on high; the fortification of rocks will be his lofty place. Bread has been given to him; his waters are reliable.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His eyes will see the king in his elegance; they will discern the land from far away.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Your heart will meditate on fear. Where are the learned? Where are those who ponder the words of the law? Where are the teachers of little ones?</p>

<p><a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> You will not look upon a shameless people, a people of exalted words. For you are not able to understand the dissertation of a tongue in which there is no wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Look with favor upon Zion, the city of our solemnity. Your eyes will behold Jerusalem: an opulent habitation, a tabernacle that can never be taken away. Its stakes will not be taken away forever, nor will any of its cords be broken.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For only in that place has our Lord been magnified. It is a place of rivers, very broad and open. No ship with oars will cross through it, nor will the great Greek ship pass through it.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For the Lord is our judge. The Lord is our lawgiver. The Lord is our king. He himself will save us.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Your ropes have become loose, and they will not prevail. Your mast will be such that you will not be able to unfurl a flag. Then the spoils of much plunder will be divided. The lame will seize the spoils.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He who is nearby will not say: "I am too weak." The people who live in it will have their iniquity taken away from them.</p>

</body>
</html>