<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Moab. Because Ar of Moab has been destroyed by night, it is utterly silent. Because the wall of Moab has been destroyed by night, it is utterly silent.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The house has ascended with Dibon to the heights, in mourning over Nebo and over Medeba. Moab has wailed. There will be baldness on all of their heads, and every beard will be shaven.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> At their crossroads, they have been wrapped with sackcloth. On their rooftops and in their streets, everyone descends, wailing and weeping.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Heshbon will cry out with Elealeh. Their voice has been heard as far as Jahaz. Over this, the well-equipped men of Moab wail; each soul will wail to itself.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My heart will cry out to Moab; its bars will cry out even to Zoar, like a three-year-old calf. For they will ascend weeping, by way of the ascent of Luhith. And along the way of Horonaim, they will lift up a cry of contrition.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the waters of Nimrim will be desolate, because the plants have withered, and the seedling has failed, and all the greenery has passed away.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> This is in accord with the magnitude of their works and of their visitation. They will lead them to the torrent of the willows.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For an outcry has circulated along the border of Moab; its wailing even to Eglaim, and its clamor even to the well of Elim.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Because the waters of Dibon have been filled with blood, I will place even more upon Dibon: those from Moab who flee the lion, and the survivors of the earth.</p>

</body>
</html>