<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 47</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 47</h2>

<p><a id="c47_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Descend, sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon! Sit on the ground. There is no throne for the daughter of the Chaldeans. For you shall no longer be called delicate and tender.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take a millstone and grind meal. Uncover your shame, bare your shoulder, reveal your legs, cross the streams.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Your disgrace will be revealed, and your shame will be seen. I will seize vengeance, and no man will withstand me.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Our Redeemer, the Lord of hosts is his name, the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Sit in silence, and enter into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans! For you shall no longer be called the noblewoman of kingdoms.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I was angry with my people. I have polluted my inheritance, and I have given them into your hand. You have not shown mercy to them. You have greatly increased the burden of your yoke upon the elders.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And you have said: "I will be a noblewoman forever." You have not set these things upon your heart, and you have not remembered your end.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And now, hear these things, you who are delicate and have confidence, who say in your heart: "I am, and there is no one greater than me. I will not sit as a widow, and I will not know barrenness."</p>

<p><a id="c47_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> These two things will suddenly overwhelm you in one day: barrenness and widowhood. All things shall overwhelm you, because of the multitude of your sorceries and because of the great cruelty of your enchantments.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And you have trusted in your malice, and you have said: "There is no one who sees me." Your wisdom and your knowledge, these have deceived you. And you have said in your heart: "I am, and beside me there is no other."</p>

<p><a id="c47_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Evil will overwhelm you, and you will not notice its rising. And calamity will fall violently over you, and you will not be able to avert it. You will suddenly be overwhelmed by a misery such as you have never known.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Stand with your incantations, and with the multitude of your sorceries, in which you have labored from your youth, as if somehow it might benefit you, or as if it were able to make you stronger.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You have failed in the multitude of your plans! Let the seers stand and save you, those who were contemplating the stars, and figuring the months, so that from these they might announce to you the things to come.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, they have become like stubble. Fire has consumed them. They will not free themselves from the power of the flames. These are not coals by which they may be warmed, nor is this a fire which they may sit beside.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So have all these things, in which you have labored, become to you. Your merchants from your youth, each one has erred in his own way. There is no one who can save you.</p>

</body>
</html>