<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 53</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 53</h2>

<p><a id="c53_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Who has believed our report? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?</p>

<p><a id="c53_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he will rise up like a tender plant in his sight, and like a root from the thirsty ground. There is no beautiful or stately appearance in him. For we looked upon him, and there was no aspect, such that we would desire him.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He is despised and the least among men, a man of sorrows who knows infirmity. And his countenance was hidden and despised. Because of this, we did not esteem him.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Truly, he has taken away our weaknesses, and he himself has carried our sorrows. And we thought of him as if he were a leper, or as if he had been struck by God and humiliated.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But he himself was wounded because of our iniquities. He was bruised because of our wickedness. The discipline of our peace was upon him. And by his wounds, we are healed.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> We have all gone astray like sheep; each one has turned aside to his own way. And the Lord has placed all our iniquity upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He was offered up, because it was his own will. And he did not open his mouth. He will be led like a sheep to the slaughter. And he will be mute like a lamb before his shearer. For he will not open his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He was lifted up from anguish and judgment. Who will describe his life? For he has been cut off from the land of the living. Because of the wickedness of my people, I have struck him down.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he will be given a place with the impious for his burial, and with the rich for his death, though he has done no iniquity, nor was deceit in his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But it was the will of the Lord to crush him with infirmity. If he lays down his life because of sin, he will see offspring with long lives, and the will of the Lord will be directed by his hand.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because his soul has labored, he will see and be satisfied. By his knowledge, my just servant will himself justify many, and he himself will carry their iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore, I will allot to him a great number. And he will divide the spoils of the strong. For he has handed over his life to death, and he was reputed among criminals. And he has taken away the sins of many, and he has prayed for the transgressors.</p>

</body>
</html>