<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of the desert of the sea. Just as the whirlwinds approach from Africa, it approaches from the desert, from a terrible land.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A difficult vision has been announced to me: he who is unbelieving, he acts unfaithfully, and he who is a plunderer, he devastates. Ascend, O Elam! Lay siege, O Media! I have caused all its mourning to cease.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Because of this, my lower back has been filled with pain, and anguish has possessed me, like the anguish of a woman in labor. I fell down when I heard it. I was disturbed when I saw it.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My heart withered. The darkness stupefied me. Babylon, my beloved, has become a wonder to me.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Prepare the table. Contemplate, from a place of observation, those who eat and drink. Rise up, you leaders! Take up the shield!</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the Lord has said this to me: "Go and station a watchman. And let him announce whatever he will see."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he saw a chariot with two horsemen, and a rider on an donkey, and a rider on a camel. And he considered them diligently, with an intense gaze.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And a lion cried out: "I am on the watchtower of the Lord, standing continually by day. And I am at my station, standing throughout the night.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, a certain man approaches, a man riding on a two-horse chariot." And he responded, and he said: "Fallen, fallen is Babylon! And all its graven gods have been crushed into the earth!</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> O my threshed grain! O sons of my threshing floor! What I have heard from the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, I have announced to you."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The burden of Dumah, cried out to me from Seir: "Watchman, how goes the night? Watchman, how goes the night?"</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The watchman said: "Morning approaches with the night. If you are seeking: seek, and convert, and approach."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The burden in Arabia. In the forest you shall sleep, in the evening on the paths of Dedanim.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You who inhabit the land of the south: upon meeting the thirsty, bring water; meet the fugitive with bread.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For they are fleeing before the face of swords, before the face of a sword hanging over them, before the face of a bent bow, before the face of a grievous battle.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the Lord said this to me: "After one more year, just like one year for a hired hand, all the glory of Kedar will be taken away.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the remainder of the multitude of strong archers from the sons of Kedar will be few, for the Lord, the God of Israel, has spoken it."</p>

</body>
</html>