<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the earlier time, the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali were lifted up. But in the later time, the way of the sea beyond the Jordan, the Galilee of the Gentiles, was weighed down.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. A light has risen for the inhabitants of the region of the shadow of death.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You have increased the nation, but you have not increased the rejoicing. They will rejoice before you, like those who rejoice at the harvest, like the victorious exulting after capturing the prey, when they divide the spoils.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For you have prevailed over the yoke of their burden, and over the rod of their shoulder, and over the scepter of their oppressor, as in the day of Midian.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For every violent plunder with a tumult, and every garment mixed with blood, will be burned up and will become fuel for the fire.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For unto us a child is born, and unto us a son is given. And leadership is placed upon his shoulder. And his name shall be called: wonderful Counselor, mighty God, father of the future age, Prince of Peace.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> His reign will be increased, and there will be no end to his peace. He will sit upon the throne of David and over his kingdom, to confirm and strengthen it, in judgment and justice, from now even unto eternity. The zeal of the Lord of hosts shall accomplish this.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Lord sent a word to Jacob, and it fell upon Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And all the people of Ephraim will know it. And the inhabitants of Samaria will say it, in the arrogance and haughtiness of their heart:</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> "The bricks have fallen, but we will build with squared stones. They have cut down the sycamores, but we will replace them with cedars."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Lord will raise up the enemies of Rezin over him, and he will turn his adversaries into a tumult:</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> the Syrians from the east and the Philistines from the west. And they will devour Israel with their whole mouth. After all this, his fury was not turned away; instead, his hand was still extended.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the people did not return to the One who struck them, and they did not seek the Lord of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And so, the Lord will disperse, away from Israel, the head and the tail, he who bows down and he who refrains, in one day.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The long-lived and honorable, he is the head; and the prophet who teaches lies, he is the tail.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And those who deceitfully praise this people, and those who are praised, will be thrown down violently.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For this reason, the Lord will not rejoice over their youths. And he will not take pity on their orphans and widows. For each one is a hypocrite, and each one is wicked, and every mouth has spoken foolishness. After all this, his fury was not turned away; instead, his hand was still extended.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For impiety has been kindled like a fire: it will devour brier and thorn, and it will burn in the dense forest, and it will be interwoven with the ascending smoke.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The earth has been shaken by the wrath of the Lord of hosts, and the people will become like fuel for the fire. A man will not spare his own brother.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he will turn toward the right, and he will be hungry. And he will eat toward the left, and he will not be satisfied. Each one will eat the flesh of his own arm: Manasseh Ephraim, and Ephraim Manasseh, and together they will be against Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> After all this, his fury was not turned away; instead, his hand was still extended.</p>

</body>
</html>