<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it happened in the days of Ahaz, the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, the king of Judah, that Rezin, the king of Syria, and Pekah, the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, ascended to Jerusalem to battle against it. But they were not able to defeat it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they reported to the house of David, saying: "Syria has withdrawn to Ephraim." And his heart was shaken, with the heart of his people, just as the trees of the forest are moved by the face of the wind.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the Lord said to Isaiah: Go out to meet Ahaz, you and your son, Jashub, who was left behind, to the end of the aqueduct, at the upper pool, on the road to the fuller's field.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And you shall say to him: "See to it that you are silent. Do not be afraid. And have no dread in your heart over the two tails of these firebrands, nearly extinguished, which are the wrath of the fury of Rezin, king of Syria, and of the son of Remaliah."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For Syria has undertaken a plan against you, with the evil of Ephraim and the son of Remaliah, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> "Let us ascend to Judah, and stir it up, and tear it away for ourselves, and appoint the son of Tabeel as a king in its midst."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thus says the Lord God: This shall not stand, and this shall not be.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Rezin; and within sixty-five years from now, Ephraim will cease to be a people.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is the son of Remaliah. If you will not believe, you will not continue.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the Lord spoke further to Ahaz, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ask for a sign for yourself from the Lord your God, from the depths below, even to the heights above.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Ahaz said, "I will not ask, for I will not tempt the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he said: "Then listen, O house of David. Is it such a small thing for you to trouble men, that you must also trouble my God?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For this reason, the Lord himself will grant to you a sign. Behold, a virgin will conceive, and she will give birth to a son, and his name will be called Immanuel.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He will eat butter and honey, so that he may know to reject evil and to choose good.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But even before the boy knows to refuse evil and to choose good, the land that you detest will be abandoned by the face of her two kings.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The Lord will lead over you, and over your people, and over the house of your father, such days as have not occurred since the days of the separation of Ephraim from Judah by the king of the Assyrians.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And this shall be in that day: the Lord will call for the fly, which is in the most distant parts of the rivers of Egypt, and for the swarm, which is in the land of Assur.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they will arrive, and they all will rest in the torrents of the valleys, and in the caverns of the rocks, and in every thicket, and in every opening.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In that day, the Lord will shave with a razor the ones hired by those who are across the river, by the king of the Assyrians, from the head to the hairs of the feet, with the entire beard.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And this shall be in that day: a man will raise a cow among oxen, and two sheep,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and, instead of an abundance of milk, he will eat butter. For all who are left behind in the midst of the land will eat butter and honey.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And this shall be in that day: every place, where there were a thousand grapevines worth a thousand pieces of silver, will become thorns and briers.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They will enter such places with arrows and bows. For briers and thorns will be throughout the entire land.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But as for all the mountains, which will be dug with a hoe, the terror of thorns and briers will not approach those places. And there will be pasture land for oxen, and a range for cattle."</p>

</body>
</html>