<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let the islands be silent before me, and let the nations take new strength. Let them draw near, and then speak. Let us apply for judgment together.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who has raised up a just man from the east, and has called him to follow him? He will place the nations under his gaze, and he will rule over kings. He will cause them to be like dust before his sword, like chaff driven by the wind before his bow.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He will pursue them. He will pass by in peace. No trace will appear after his feet.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who has worked and accomplished these things, calling to the generations from the beginning? "It is I, the Lord! I am the first and the last."</p>

<p><a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The islands saw it and were afraid. The ends of the earth were stupefied. They drew near and arrived.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Each one will help his neighbor and will say to his brother, "Be strengthened."</p>

<p><a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The coppersmith striking with the mallet encouraged him who was forging at that time, saying, "It is ready for soldering." And he strengthened it with nails, so that it would not be moved.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But you, O Israel, are my servant, O Jacob, whom I have chosen, the offspring of my friend Abraham.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For his sake, I have taken you from the ends of the earth, and I have called you from its distant places. And I said to you: "You are my servant. I have chosen you, and I have not cast you aside."</p>

<p><a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Do not be afraid, for I am with you. Do not turn away, for I am your God. I have strengthened you, and I have assisted you, and the right hand of my just one has upheld you.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, all who fight against you shall be confounded and ashamed. They will be as if they did not exist, and the men who contradict you will perish.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You will seek them, and you will not find them. The men who rebel against you will be as if they did not exist. And the men who make war against you will be like something that has been consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I am the Lord your God. I take you by your hand, and I say to you: Do not be afraid. I have helped you.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Fear not, O worm of Jacob, you who are dead within Israel. I have helped you, says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I have established you like a new threshing cart, having serrated blades. You will thresh the mountains and crush them. And you will turn the hills into chaff.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> You will winnow them, and the wind will blow them away, and the whirlwind will scatter them. And you shall exult in the Lord; you shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The indigent and the poor are seeking water, but there is none. Their tongue has been dried up by thirst. I, the Lord, will heed them. I, the God of Israel, will not abandon them.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will open rivers in the high hills, and fountains in the midst of the plains. I will turn the desert into pools of water, and the impassable land into streams of water.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I will plant the cedar in a deserted place, with the thorn, and the myrtle, and the olive tree. In the desert, I will plant the pine, and the elm, and the box tree together,</p>

<p><a id="c41_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> so that they may see and know, acknowledge and understand, together, that the hand of the Lord has accomplished this, and that the Holy One of Israel has created it.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Bring your case forward, says the Lord. Bring it here, if you have anything to allege, says the King of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Let them approach and announce to us the things that will occur. Announce to us the things that were before. And we will apply our heart to them, and we will know their end. And so, reveal to us the things that will occur.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Announce the things that will occur in the future, and we will know that you are gods. Likewise, accomplish good or evil, if you are able, and let us speak of it and see it together.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Behold, you exist out of nothing, and your work is from what does not exist; he who has chosen you is an abomination.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I have raised up one from the north, and he will arrive from the rising of the sun. He will call upon my name, and he will reduce magistrates to mud, like a potter working with clay.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Who has announced this from its rising, so that we may know it, or from its beginning, so that we may say, "You are just." There is no one who either announces, or predicts, or hears your words.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The first one will say to Zion: "Behold, they are here," and to Jerusalem, "I will present an evangelist."</p>

<p><a id="c41_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And I saw, and there was no one among any of them to consult, or who, when I asked, could answer a word.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Behold, they are all unjust, and their works are empty. Their idols are wind and emptiness.</p>

</body>
</html>