<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Babylon which Isaiah, the son of Amoz, saw.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Over the foggy mountain lift up a sign! Raise the voice, lift up the hand, and let the rulers enter through the gates!</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In my wrath, I commanded my sanctified ones, and I called my strong ones, those who exult in my glory.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> On the mountains, there is the voice of a multitude, as if of a numerous people, a voice with the sound of kings, of nations gathered together. For the Lord of hosts has given orders to soldiers of war,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> to those who are arriving from a far off land, from the heights of the heavens. It is the Lord and the instruments of his fury, so that he may bring ruin to all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wail aloud! For the day of the Lord draws near! It will arrive like a devastation from the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Because of it, every hand will fail, and every heart of man will waste away and be crushed.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Writhing and pain will seize them. They will be in pain, like a woman in labor. Each one will appear stupefied to his neighbor. Their countenances will be like faces which have been burned up.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, the day of the Lord approaches: a cruel day, full of indignation and wrath and fury, which will place the earth in solitude and crush the sinners from it.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the stars of the heavens, in their splendor, will not display their light. The sun will be obscured at its rising, and the moon will not shine in her brightness.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I will act against the evils of the world, and against the impious for their iniquity. And I will cause the pride of the unfaithful to cease, and I will bring down the arrogance of the strong.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A man will be more precious than gold, and mankind will become like pure refined gold.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For this purpose, I will stir up heaven, and the earth will be moved from its place, because of the indignation of the Lord of hosts, because of the day of his furious wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they will be like a doe fleeing away, or like sheep; and there will be no one who may gather them together. Each one will turn to his own people, and every one will flee to his own land.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All who are found will be killed, and all who are caught unaware will fall by the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Their infants will be thrown down violently before their eyes. Their houses will be plundered, and their wives will be violated.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Behold, I will stir up the Medes against them. They will not seek silver, nor desire gold.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Instead, with their arrows, they will put the little children to death, and they will take no pity on breastfeeding women, and their eye will not spare their children.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And then Babylon, the glorious one among kingdoms, that famous pride of the Chaldeans, will be destroyed, even as the Lord destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> It will not be inhabited, even unto the end, and it will not be reestablished, even from generation to generation. The Arab will not pitch his tents there, nor will the shepherds take rest there.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Instead, the wild beasts will rest there, and their houses will be filled with serpents, and ostriches will live there, and the hairy ones will leap about there.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the tawny owls will answer one another there, in its buildings, and the Sirens in its shrines of pleasure.</p>

</body>
</html>