<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 63</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 63</h2>

<p><a id="c63_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Who is this, who arrives from Edom with dyed garments from Bozrah? This is the Handsome One in his robe, advancing by the fullness of his strength. It is I, the Speaker of Justice, and I am the Fighter for Salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> So then, why is your garment red, and why are your vestments like the ones of those who tread the winepress?</p>

<p><a id="c63_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have trod the winepress alone. And among the nations, there is no man beside me. I have trampled on them in my fury, and I have tread them down in my wrath. And so, their blood has been sprinkled on my vestments, and I have stained all my garments.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the day of vengeance is in my heart. The year of my redemption has arrived.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I gazed around, and there was no one to assist. I sought, and there was no one who would help. And so, my own arm has saved for me, and my own wrath itself has assisted me.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I have trampled the peoples in my fury, and I have inebriated them with my indignation, and I have torn down their strength to the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will remember the compassion of the Lord, the praise of the Lord over all that the Lord has bestowed on us, and over the multitude of his good things for the house of Israel, which he has granted to them according to his leniency, and according to the multitude of his mercies.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he said: "Yet truly, these are my people, sons who have not been disowned." And he became their Savior.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Throughout all their tribulation, he was not troubled, for the Angel of his presence saved them. With his love, and by his leniency, he has redeemed them, and he has carried them and lifted them up, throughout all the days of the ages.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But they themselves provoked to wrath and afflicted his Holy Spirit, and he was turned to be for them like an enemy, and he himself went to war against them.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he remembered the days of ancient times, the days of Moses and his people. Where is he who led them out of the sea, with the shepherds of his flock? Where is he who placed his Holy Spirit in their midst?</p>

<p><a id="c63_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He led Moses by the right hand, with the arm of his majesty. He split the waters before them, in order to make an everlasting name for himself.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He led them through the abyss, like a horse which does not stumble, in the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Like an animal who descends to an open field, the Spirit of the Lord was their guide. Thus did you lead your people, in order to make a glorious name for yourself.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Gaze down from heaven, and behold from your holy habitation and from your glory. Where is your zeal, and your strength, the fullness of your heart and of your compassion? They have held themselves back from me.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For you are our Father, and Abraham has not known us, and Israel has been ignorant of us. You are our Father, O Lord our Redeemer. Your name is beyond all ages.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Why have you allowed us to stray from your ways, O Lord? Why have you hardened our heart, so that we do not fear you? Return, for the sake of your servants, the tribes of your inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They have possessed your holy people as if it were nothing. Our enemies have trampled your sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> We have become as we were in the beginning, when you did not rule over us, and when we were not called by your name.</p>

</body>
</html>