<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 50</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 50</h2>

<p><a id="c50_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus says the Lord: What is this bill of divorce for your mother, by which I have dismissed her? Or who is my creditor, to whom I have sold you? Behold, you were sold by your iniquities, and I have dismissed your mother for your wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For I arrived, and there was no man. I called out, and there was no one who would hear. Has my hand been shortened and become small, so that I am unable to redeem? Or is there no power in me to deliver? Behold, at my rebuke, I will make the sea into a desert. I will turn rivers into dry land. The fish will rot for lack of water and will die of thirst.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will clothe the heavens in darkness, and I will make sackcloth their covering.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The Lord has given me a learned tongue, so that I would know how to uphold with a word, one who has weakened. He rises in the morning, he rises to my ear in the morning, so that I may heed him like a teacher.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The Lord God has opened my ear. And I do not contradict him. I have not turned back.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have given my body to those who strike me, and my cheeks to those who plucked them. I have not averted my face from those who rebuked me and who spit on me.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The Lord God is my helper. Therefore, I have not been confounded. Therefore, I have set my face like a very hard rock, and I know that I will not be confounded.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He who justifies me is near. Who will speak against me? Let us stand together. Who is my adversary? Let him approach me.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, the Lord God is my helper. Who is the one who would condemn me? Behold, they will all be worn away like a garment; the moth will devour them.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who is there among you who fears the Lord? Who hears the voice of his servant? Who has walked in darkness, and there is no light in him? Let him hope in the name of the Lord, and let him lean upon his God.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, all you who kindle a fire, wrapped in flames: walk in the light of your fire and in the flames that you have kindled. This has been done to you by my hand. You will sleep in anguish.</p>

</body>
</html>