<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 60</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 60</h2>

<p><a id="c60_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Rise up to be illuminated, O Jerusalem! For your light has arrived, and the glory of the Lord has risen over you.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For behold, darkness will cover the earth, and thick darkness will cover the peoples. Then the Lord will rise above you, and his glory will be seen in you.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the nations will walk in your light, and the kings will walk by the splendor of your rising.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Lift up your eyes all around and see! All these have been gathered together; they have arrived before you. Your sons will arrive from far away, and your daughters will rise up from your side.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then you will see, and you will overflow, and your heart will be amazed and expanded. When the multitude of the sea will have been converted to you, the strength of the nations will approach you.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A multitude of camels will inundate you: the dromedaries from Midian and Ephah. All those from Sheba will arrive, carrying gold and frankincense, and announcing praise to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All the flocks of Kedar will be gathered together before you; the rams of Nebaioth will minister to you. They will be offered upon my pleasing altar, and I will glorify the house of my majesty.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who are these ones, who fly like the clouds and like doves to their windows?</p>

<p><a id="c60_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For the islands await me, and the ships of the sea in the beginning, so that I may lead your sons from far away, their silver and their gold with them, to the name of the Lord your God and to the Holy One of Israel. For he has glorified you.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the sons of sojourners will build up your walls, and their kings will minister to you. For in my wrath, I have struck you. And in my reconciliation, I have taken pity on you.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And your gates will be open continually. They will not be closed day or night, so that the strength of the nations may be brought before you, and their kings may be lead in.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the nation and the kingdom that will not serve you will perish. And the Gentiles will be devastated by solitude.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The glory of Lebanon will arrive before you, the fir tree and the box tree and the pine tree together, to adorn the place of my sanctification. And I will glorify the place of my feet.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the sons of those who humiliate you will approach and will bow down before you. And all who detract you will reverence the path of your feet. And they will call you the City of the Lord, the Zion of the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For though you were forsaken, and held in hatred, and there was no one who would pass near you, I will establish you as an everlasting glory, as a gladness from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And you will drink the milk of the Gentiles, and you will be nursed at the breasts of kings, and you will know that I am the Lord, your Saviour and your Redeemer, the Strong One of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> In exchange for brass, I will bring gold; and in exchange for iron, I will bring silver; and for wood, brass; and for stones, iron. And I will make your visitation into peace, and your leaders into justice.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Iniquity will no longer be heard in your land, nor devastation and destruction in your borders. And salvation will occupy your walls, and praise will occupy your gates.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The sun will no longer be your light by day, nor will the brightness of the moon illuminate you. Instead, the Lord will be an everlasting light for you, and your God will be your glory.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Your sun will no longer set, and your moon will not diminish. For the Lord will be an everlasting light for you, and the days of your mourning will be completed.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And your people will all be just. They will inherit the earth in perpetuity, the seedling of my planting, the work of my hand, so as to glorify me.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The least will become a thousand, and a little one will become a very strong nation. I, the Lord, will accomplish this, suddenly, in its time.</p>

</body>
</html>