<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 56</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 56</h2>

<p><a id="c56_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus says the Lord: Preserve judgment, and accomplish justice. For my salvation is close to its arrival, and my justice is close to being revealed.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Blessed is the man who does this, and the son of man who holds to this, keeping the Sabbath and not profaning it, guarding his hands and not doing any evil.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And let not the son of the new arrival, who adheres to the Lord, speak, saying, "The Lord will divide and separate me from his people." And let not the eunuch say, "Behold, I am a dry tree."</p>

<p><a id="c56_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thus says the Lord to the eunuchs: They will keep my Sabbaths, and they will choose the things that I will, and they will hold to my covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I will give them a place in my house, within my walls, and a name better than sons and daughters. I will give them an everlasting name, which will never perish.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the sons of the new arrival, who adhere to the Lord so as to worship him and to love his name, shall be his servants: all who keep the Sabbath without profaning it, and who hold to my covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will lead them to my holy mountain, and I will gladden them in my house of prayer. Their holocausts and their victims will be pleasing to me upon my altar. For my house will be called the house of prayer for all peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Lord God, who gathers the dispersed of Israel, says: Even now, I will gather his congregation to him.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All beasts of the field, all the beasts of the forest: approach and devour!</p>

<p><a id="c56_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His watchmen are all blind. They are all ignorant. They are mute dogs without the ability to bark, seeing empty things, sleeping and loving dreams.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And these very imprudent dogs have never known satisfaction. The shepherds themselves do not know understanding. All have turned aside in their own way, each one to his own avarice, from the highest even to the least:</p>

<p><a id="c56_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> "Come, let us take wine, and be filled by inebriation. And as it is today, so shall it be tomorrow and for a long time."</p>

</body>
</html>