<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O Lord, send forth the Lamb, the Ruler of the earth, from the Rock of the desert to the mountain of the daughter of Zion.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And this shall be: like a bird fleeing away, and like fledglings flying from the nest, so will the daughters of Moab be at the passage of Arnon.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Form a plan. Call a council. Let your shadow be as if it were night, even at midday. Conceal the fugitives, and do not betray the wanderers.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My fugitives will live with you. Become a hiding place, O Moab, from the face of the destroyer. For the dust is at its end; the miserable one has been consumed. He who trampled the earth has failed.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And a throne will be prepared in mercy, and One shall sit upon it in truth, in the tabernacle of David, judging and seeking judgment, and quickly repaying what is just.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> We have heard of the pride of Moab; he is very proud. His pride and his arrogance and his indignation is more than his strength.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For this reason, Moab will wail to Moab; each one will wail. Speak of their wounds to those who rejoice upon the brick walls.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the suburbs of Heshbon are deserted, and the lords of the Gentiles have cut down the vineyard of Sibmah. Its vines have arrived even at Jazer. They have wandered in the desert. Its seedlings have been abandoned. They have crossed over the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will weep with the tears of Jazer over this, the vineyard of Sibmah. I will inebriate you with my tears, Heshbon and Elealeh! For the sound of those who trample has rushed over your vintage and over your harvest.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And so, rejoicing and exultation will be taken away from Carmel, and there will be no jubilation or exultation in the vineyards. He who was accustomed to tread will not tread out the wine in the winepress. I have taken away the sound of those who tread.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Over this, my heart will resonate like a harp for Moab, and my inner most being for the brick wall.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And this shall be: when it is seen that Moab has struggled upon his high places, he will enter his holy places to pray, but he will not prevail.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This is the word that the Lord has spoken to Moab concerning that time.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And now the Lord has spoken, saying: In three years, like the years of a hired hand, the glory of Moab concerning the entire multitude of the people will be taken away, and what is left behind will be small and weak and not so numerous.</p>

</body>
</html>