<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O Lord, you are my God! I will exalt you, and I will confess your name. For you have accomplished miracles. Your plan, from antiquity, is faithful. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For you have appointed a city as a tomb, a strong city for ruination, a house of foreigners: so that it may not be a city, and so that it may not be rebuilt forever.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Concerning this, a strong people will praise you; a city with a robust people will fear you.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For you have been the strength of the poor, the strength of the indigent in his tribulation, a refuge from the whirlwind, a shadow from the heat. For the spirit of the mighty is like a whirlwind striking against a wall.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You will bring low the uprising of foreigners, just as heat brings thirst. And like heat under a torrential cloud, you will cause the offshoot of the strong to wither away.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Lord of hosts will cause all the peoples on this mountain to feast on fatness, to feast on wine, a fatness full of marrow, a purified wine.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he will cast down violently, on this mountain, the face of the chains, with which all peoples had been bound, and the net, with which all nations had been covered.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He will violently cast down death forever. And the Lord God will take away the tears from every face, and he will take away the disgrace of his people from the entire earth. For the Lord has spoken it.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they will say in that day: "Behold, this is our God! We have waited for him, and he will save us. This is the Lord! We have endured for him. We will exult and rejoice in his salvation."</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the hand of the Lord will rest upon this mountain. And Moab will be trampled under him, just as stubble is worn away by a wagon.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he will extend his hands under him, like a swimmer extending his hands to swim. And he will bring down his glory with a clap of his hands.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the fortifications of your sublime walls will fall, and be brought low, and be torn down to the ground, even to the dust.</p>

</body>
</html>