<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Egypt. Behold, the Lord will ascend upon a lofty cloud, and he will enter into Egypt, and the false images of Egypt will be moved before his face, and the heart of Egypt will waste away in its midst.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I will cause Egyptian to rush against Egyptian. And they will fight: a man against his brother, and a man against his friend, city against city, kingdom against kingdom.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the spirit of Egypt will be ruptured to its very core. And I will cast down their plan violently. And they will seek answers from their false images, and their diviners, and those led by demons, and their seers.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will deliver Egypt into the hand of cruel masters, and a strong king will dominate them, says the Lord, the God of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the waters of the sea will dry up, and the river will be desolate and dry.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the rivers will fail. The streams of its banks will diminish and dry up. The reed and the bulrush will wither away.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The channel of the river will be stripped down to its source, and everything irrigated by it will dry up and wither and be no more.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the fishermen will grieve. And all who cast a hook into the river will mourn. And those who cast a net upon the surface of its waters will languish.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Those who work with linen, combing and weaving fine textiles, will be confounded.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And its irrigated places will begin to fail, with all those who make pools to take fish.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The leaders of Tanis are foolish. The wise counselors of Pharaoh have given foolish counsel. How can you say to Pharaoh: "I am the son of wisemen, the son of the kings of antiquity?"</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Where are your wisemen now? Let them announce it to you, and let them reveal what the Lord of hosts intends for Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The leaders of Tanis have become foolish. The leaders of Memphis have decayed. They have deceived Egypt, the corner of its people.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The Lord has mixed a spirit of giddiness into its midst. And they have caused Egypt to err in all its works, like a drunken man who staggers and vomits.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And there will be no work for Egypt that would produce a head or a tail, one who bows down or one who refrains from bowing down.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In that day, Egypt will be like women, and they will be stupefied and fearful before the presence of the shaking hand of the Lord of hosts, the hand which he will move over them.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the land of Judah will be a dread to Egypt. Everyone who thinks about it will be terrified before the presence of the plan of the Lord of hosts, the plan which he has decided concerning them.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In that day, there will be five cities in the land of Egypt which speak the language of Canaan, and which swear by the Lord of hosts. One will be called the City of the Sun.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In that day, there will be an altar of the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt and a monument of the Lord beside its borders.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This shall be a sign and a testimony to the Lord of hosts in the land of Egypt. For they will cry out to the Lord before the face of the tribulation, and he will send them a savior and a defender who will free them.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the Lord will be acknowledged by Egypt, and the Egyptians will recognize the Lord in that day, and they will worship him with sacrifices and gifts. And they will make vows to the Lord, and they will fulfill them.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the Lord will strike Egypt with a scourge, and he will heal them. And they will return to the Lord. And he will be placated toward them, and he will heal them.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In that day, there will be a way from Egypt to the Assyrians, and the Assyrian will enter into Egypt, and the Egyptian will be with the Assyrians, and the Egyptians will serve Assur.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> In that day, will Israel be the third to the Egyptian and the Assyrian, a blessing in the midst of the earth,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> which the Lord of hosts has blessed, saying: Blessed be my people of Egypt, and the work of my hands for the Assyrian, but Israel is my inheritance.</p>

</body>
</html>