<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The desolate and impassable land will rejoice, and the place of solitude will exult, and it will flourish like the lily.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It will spring up and blossom, and it will exult with rejoicing and praising. The glory of Lebanon has been given to it, with the beauty of Carmel and Sharon. These will see the glory of the Lord and the beauty of our God.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Strengthen the lax hands, and confirm the weak knees!</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Say to the fainthearted: "Take courage and fear not! Behold, your God will bring the vindication of retribution. God himself will arrive to save you."</p>

<p><a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then the eyes of the blind will be opened, and the ears of the deaf will be cleared.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then the disabled will leap like a buck, and the tongue of the mute will be untied. For the waters have burst forth in the desert, and torrents in solitary places.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the land that was dry will have a pond, and the thirsty land will have fountains of water. In the hollows where the serpents lived before, there will rise up the greenery of reed and bulrush.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there shall be a path and a road in that place. And it will be called the Holy Way. The defiled will not pass through it. For this will be an upright path for you, so much so that the foolish will not wander along it.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> There will be no lions in that place, and harmful wild animals will neither climb up to it, nor be found there. Only those who have been freed will walk in that place.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the redeemed of the Lord will be converted, and they will return to Zion with praising. And everlasting joy will be upon their heads. They will obtain gladness and rejoicing. For pain and sorrow will flee away.</p>

</body>
</html>