<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 38</h2>

<p><a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In those days Hezekiah became ill and was near death. And so, Isaiah, the son of Amoz, the prophet, entered to him, and he said to him: "Thus says the Lord: Put your house in order, for you shall die, and you shall not live."</p>

<p><a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall, and he prayed to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said: "I beg you, Lord, I beseech you, to remember how I walked before you in truth and with a whole heart, and that I have done what is good in your sight." And Hezekiah wept with a great weeping.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the word of the Lord came to Isaiah, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> "Go and say to Hezekiah: Thus says the Lord, the God of David, your father: I have heard your prayer, and I have seen your tears. Behold, I will add fifteen years to your days.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I will rescue you and this city from the hand of the king of the Assyrians, and I will protect it.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And this will be a sign for you from the Lord, that the Lord will do this word, which he has spoken:</p>

<p><a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behold, I will cause the shadow of the lines, which has now descended on the sundial of Ahaz, to move in reverse for ten lines." And so, the sun moved backward by ten lines, through the degrees by which it had descended.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The writing of Hezekiah, the king of Judah, after he had fallen ill and had recovered from his sickness:</p>

<p><a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> "I said: In the middle of my days, I will go to the gates of Hell. So I sought the remainder of my years.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I said: I will not see the Lord God in the land of the living. I will no longer behold man, nor the habitation of rest.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My longevity has been taken away; it has been folded up and taken from me, like the tent of a shepherd. My life has been cut off, as if by a weaver. While I was still beginning, he cut me off. From morning until evening, you have marked out my limits.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I hoped, even until morning. Like a lion, so has he crushed all my bones. From morning until evening, you have marked my limits.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will cry out, like a young swallow. I will meditate, like a dove. My eyes have been weakened by gazing upward. O Lord, I suffer violence! Answer in my favor.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What can I say, or what would he answer me, since he himself has done this? I will acknowledge to you all my years, in the bitterness of my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> O Lord, if such is life, and if the life of my spirit is of such a kind, may you correct me and may you cause me to live.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Behold, in peace my bitterness is most bitter. But you have rescued my soul, so that it would not perish. You have cast all my sins behind your back.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For Hell will not confess to you, and death will not praise you. Those who descend into the pit will not hope for your truth.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The living, the living, these will give praise to you, as I also do this day! The father will make the truth known to the sons.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> O Lord, save me! And we will sing our psalms, all the days of our life, in the house of the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now Isaiah had ordered them to take a paste of figs, and to spread it like plaster over the wound, so that he would be healed.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Hezekiah said, "What will be the sign that I may go up to the house of the Lord?"</p>

</body>
</html>