<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 46</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 46</h2>

<p><a id="c46_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bel has been broken. Nebo has been crushed. Their idols have been placed upon beasts and cattle, your grievous heavy burdens, even unto exhaustion.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They have been melted down, or have been smashed together. They were not able to save the one who carried them, and their life will go into captivity.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Listen to me, house of Jacob, all the remnant of the house of Israel, who are carried in my bosom, who were born from my womb.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Even to your old age, I am the same. And even with your grey hairs, I will carry you. I have made you, and I will sustain you. I will carry you, and I will save you.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> To whom would you likened me, or equate me, or compare me, or consider me to be similar?</p>

<p><a id="c46_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You take gold from a bag, and you weigh silver on a scale, so as to hire a goldsmith to make a god. And they fall prostrate and adore.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They carry him on their shoulders, supporting him, and they set him in his place. And he will stand still and will not move from his place. But even when they will cry out to him, he will not hear. He will not save them from tribulation.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remember this, and be confounded. Return, you transgressors, to the heart.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Remember the past ages. For I am God, and there is no other god. There is no one like me.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> From the beginning, I announce the last things, and from the start, the things that have not yet been done, saying: My plan will stand firm, and my entire will shall be done.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I call a bird from the east, and from a far away land, the man of my will. And I have spoken it, and I will carry it out. I have created, and I will act.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hear me, you who are hard of heart, who are far from justice!</p>

<p><a id="c46_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I have brought my justice near. It will not be far away, and my salvation will not be delayed. I will grant salvation in Zion, and my glory in Israel.</p>

</body>
</html>