<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Damascus. Behold, Damascus will cease to be a city, and it will be like a heap of stones in ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The cities in ruin will be left for the flocks, and they will take rest there, and there will be no one who may terrify them.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And assistance will cease from Ephraim, and the kingdom will cease from Damascus. And the remnant of Syria will be like the glory of the sons of Israel, says the Lord of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And this shall be in that day: the glory of Jacob will be thinned, and the fatness of his flesh will be reduced.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it shall be like the gathering of the harvest which remains, and his arm will pick the ears of grain. And it shall be like a search for grain in the valley of Rephaim.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And what is left behind in it will be like one cluster of grapes, or like a shaken olive tree with two or three olives at the top of a branch, or like four or five olives at the top of a tree, says the Lord God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In that day, a man will bow before his Maker, and his eyes will consider the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he will not bow before the altars that his hands have made. And he will not consider the things that his fingers have made, the sacred groves and the shrines.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In that day, his strong cities will be abandoned, like the plows and the grain fields which were left behind before the face of the sons of Israel, and you shall be deserted.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For you have forgotten God your Savior, and you have not remembered your strong Helper. Because of this, you will plant trustworthy plants, but you will sow a foreign seed.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In the day of your planting, the wild grapevine and your morning seed will flourish. The harvest has been taken away to the day of inheritance, and you will grieve heavily.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Woe to the multitude of many peoples, like the multitude of the roaring sea! Woe to the tumult of crowds, like the noise of many waters!</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The peoples will make a noise, like the noise of waters overflowing, but he will rebuke him, and so he will flee far away. And he will be quickly taken away, like the dust of the mountains before the face of the wind, and like a whirlwind before a tempest.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In the time of the evening, behold: there will be a disturbance. When it is early morning, he will not remain. This is the portion of those who have devastated us, and this is the lot of those who have plundered us.</p>

</body>
</html>