<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 66</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 66</h2>

<p><a id="c66_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus says the Lord: Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. What is this house that you would build for me? And what is this place of my rest?</p>

<p><a id="c66_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My hand has made all these things, and all these things have been made, says the Lord. But upon whom will I look with favor, except upon a poor little one, who is contrite in spirit, and who trembles at my words?</p>

<p><a id="c66_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Whoever immolates an ox, it is as if he slaughters a man. Whoever sacrifices a sheep, it is as if he is smashing the head of a dog. Whoever offers an oblation, it is as if he is offering swine's blood. Whoever makes remembrance with incense, it is as if he is blessing an idol. All these things, they have chosen according to their own ways, and their soul has taken delight in their own abominations.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore, I also will choose their illusions, and I will lead over them the things that they feared. For I called, and there was no one who would respond. I have spoken, and they have not listened. And they have done evil in my eyes; and what I did not will, they have chosen.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Listen to the word of the Lord, you who tremble at his word. Your brothers, who hate you and who cast you out because of my name, have said: "Let the Lord be glorified, and we will see by your rejoicing." But they themselves will be confounded.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A voice of the people from the city! A voice from the temple! The voice of the Lord repaying retribution to his enemies!</p>

<p><a id="c66_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Before she was in labor, she gave birth. Before her time arrived for delivery, she gave birth to a male child.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who has ever heard of such a thing? And who has seen anything like this? Will the earth give birth in one day? Or will a nation be born all at once? For Zion has been in labor, and she has given birth to her sons.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Will I, who causes others to give birth, not also give birth myself, says the Lord? Will I, who bestows generation upon others, be barren myself, says the Lord your God?</p>

<p><a id="c66_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Rejoice with Jerusalem, and exult in her, all you who love her! Rejoice greatly with her, all you who mourn over her!</p>

<p><a id="c66_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So may you nurse and be filled, from the breasts of her consolations. So may you receive milk and overflow with delights, from every portion of her glory.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For thus says the Lord: Behold, I will turn a river of peace toward her, with an inundating torrent: the glory of the Gentiles, from which you will nurse. You will be carried at the breasts, and they will caress you upon the knees.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In the manner of one whom a mother caresses, so will I console you. And you will be consoled in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You will see, and your heart will be glad, and your bones will flourish like a plant, and the hand of the Lord will be known to his servants, and he will be angry with his enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For behold, the Lord will arrive with fire, and his four-horse chariots will be like a whirlwind: to render his wrath with indignation, and his rebuke with flames of fire.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the Lord will divide with fire, and with his sword among all flesh, and those slain by the Lord will be many.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Those who were sanctified, who thought themselves to be clean in the gardens behind the inner gate, who were eating swine's flesh, and the abomination, and the mouse: they will be consumed all at once, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But I know their works and their thoughts. I am arriving, so that I may gather them together with all nations and languages. And they will approach, and they will see my glory.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I will set a sign among them. And I will send some of those who will have been saved to the Gentiles in the sea, to Africa, and to those who draw the bow in Lydia, to Italy and Greece, to islands far away, to those who have not heard of me, and to those who have not seen my glory. And they will announce my glory to the Gentiles.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they will lead all of your brothers from all of the Gentiles as a gift to the Lord, on horses, and in four-horse chariots, and on stretchers, and on mules, and in coaches, to my holy mountain Jerusalem, says the Lord, in the same manner that the sons of Israel would carry an offering in a pure vessel into the house of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And I will take from them to be priests and Levites, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For in like manner as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will cause to stand before me, says the Lord, so will your offspring and your name stand.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And there will be month after month, and Sabbath after Sabbath. And all flesh will approach, so as to adore before my face, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they will go out, and they will view the carcasses of the men who have transgressed against me. Their worm will not die, and their fire will not be extinguished. And they will be a sight to all flesh even unto revulsion.</p>

</body>
</html>