<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 42</h2>

<p><a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold my servant, I will uphold him, my elect, with him my soul is well-pleased. I have sent my Spirit upon him. He will offer judgment to the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He will not cry out, and he will not show favoritism to anyone; neither will his voice be heard abroad.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The bruised reed he will not break, and the smoldering wick he will not extinguish. He will lead forth judgment unto truth.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He will not be saddened or troubled, until he establishes judgment on earth. And the islands will await his law.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus says the Lord God, who created the heavens and expanded it, who formed the earth and all that springs from it, who gives breath to the people in it, and spirit to those walking on it.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I, the Lord, have called you in justice, and I have taken your hand and preserved you. And I have presented you as a covenant of the people, as a light to the Gentiles,</p>

<p><a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> so that you may open the eyes of the blind, and lead out the prisoner from confinement and those sitting in darkness from the house of incarceration.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I am the Lord; this is my name. I will not give my glory to another, nor my praise to graven things.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The things that were first, behold, they have arrived. And I also announce what is new. Before these things arise, I will cause you to hear about them.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Sing to the Lord a new canticle, sing his praise from the ends of the earth, you who descend into the sea and all its fullness, the islands and their inhabitants.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the desert and its cities be lifted up. Kedar will dwell in houses. O inhabitants of the rock, give praise! They will cry out from the top of the mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They will give glory to the Lord, and they will announce his praise to the islands.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The Lord will go forth like a strong man; like a man of battle, he will stir up zeal. He will shout and cry out. He will prevail against his enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have always been quiet; I have been silent; I have been patient. I will speak like a woman giving birth. I will destroy and consume, all at once.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will desolate the mountains and the hills, and I will wither all their grass. And I will turn rivers into islands, and I will dry up the pools of water.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I will lead the blind along a way which they do not know. And I will cause them to walk along paths with which they were unfamiliar. I will turn darkness into light before them, and crooked into straight. These things I have done for them. For I have not abandoned them.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They have been converted again. Let those who trust in graven idols be greatly confounded, for they say to a molten thing, "You are our god."</p>

<p><a id="c42_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> You who are deaf, hear! You who are blind, turn your gaze and see!</p>

<p><a id="c42_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Who is blind, except my servant? Who is deaf, except the one to whom I have sent my messengers? Who is blind, except the one who has been sold? And who is blind, except the servant of the Lord?</p>

<p><a id="c42_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You who see many things, will you not keep them? You who have open ears, will you not listen?</p>

<p><a id="c42_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the Lord was willing to sanctify him, and to magnify the law, and to exalt him.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But this same people has robbed and laid waste. All their youth are a snare, and they have been hidden in houses of confinement. They have become victims; there is no one who may rescue them. They have been plundered; there is no one who may say, "Restore."</p>

<p><a id="c42_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Who is there among you who will hear this, who will listen closely and heed this in the future?</p>

<p><a id="c42_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Who has handed over Jacob into plunder, and Israel into devastation? It is not the Lord himself, against whom we have sinned? And they were not willing to walk in his ways, and they have not listened to his law.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And so, he poured out over him the indignation of his fury and a strong battle. And he burned him all around, and he did not realize it. And he set him on fire, and he did not understand it.</p>

</body>
</html>