<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 57</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 57</h2>

<p><a id="c57_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The just man perishes, and there is no one who acknowledges it in his heart; and men of mercy are taken away, for there is no one who understands. For the just man has been taken away before the face of malice.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let peace arrive. Let he who has walked in his righteousness find rest on his bed.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But come here, you sons of the prophetess, you offspring of an adulterous man and a fornicating woman.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Whom are you mocking? Against whom have you opened your mouth wide and wagged your tongue? Are you not sons of wickedness, a lying offspring,</p>

<p><a id="c57_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> who are being consoled by idols under every leafy tree, immolating little children at the torrents, under the high rocks?</p>

<p><a id="c57_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Your portion is in the currents of the torrent; this is your lot! And you yourselves have poured out libations to them; you have offered sacrifice. Should I not be angry over these things?</p>

<p><a id="c57_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Upon a high and lofty mountain, you have placed your bed, and you have ascended to that place to immolate victims.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And behind the door, and beyond the post, you have set up your memorial. For you uncovered yourself next to me, and you received an adulterer. You widened your bed, and you formed a pact with them. You loved their bed with an open hand.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And you have adorned yourself for the king with ointments, and you have increased your cosmetics. You have sent your representatives to distant places, and you have debased yourself all the way to Hell.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You have been wearied by the multitude of your own ways. Yet you did not say, "I will cease." You have found life by your own hand; because of this, you have not prayed.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For whose sake have you been anxiously afraid, so that you would lie and not be mindful of me, nor consider me in your heart? For I am silent, and I am like someone who does not see, and so you have forgotten me.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will announce your justice, and your works will not benefit you.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When you cry out, let your followers free you. But the wind will carry them all away; a breeze will take them up. But he who has faith in me will inherit the earth and will possess my holy mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will say: "Make way! Grant passage! Move to the side of the path! Take the obstacles out of the way of my people!"</p>

<p><a id="c57_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For this is said by the Most High, the Sublime One, who dwells in eternity. And his name is Holy, for he dwells in the exalted and holy place, and he acts with a restrained and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For I will not contend unceasingly, and I will not be angry to the end. For I will exhale my breath, and the Spirit will go forth from my face.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because of the iniquity of his avarice, I was angry, and I struck him down. I concealed my face from you, and I was angry. And he went astray by wandering in his heart.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I saw his ways, and I healed him, and I led him back again, and I restored consolations to him and to those who mourn for him.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I created the fruit of the lips: peace, peace to him who is far away, and peace to him who is near, said the Lord, and I healed him.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the impious are like the raging sea, which is not able to be quieted, and its waves stir up dirt and mud.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> There is no peace for the impious, says the Lord God.</p>

</body>
</html>