<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to those who descend into Egypt for assistance, hoping in horses, and putting their trust in four-horse chariots because they are many, and in horsemen because they are exceedingly strong. And they have not believed in the Holy One of Israel, and they have not sought the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore, being wise, he has permitted harm, and he has not removed his words, and he will rise up against the house of the wicked and against those who assist the workers of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Egypt is man, and not God. And their horses are flesh, and not spirit. And so, the Lord will reach down his hand, and the helper will fall, and the one who was being helped will fall, and they will all be consumed together.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the Lord says this to me: In the same way that a lion roars, and a young lion is over his prey, and though a multitude of shepherds may meet him, he will not dread their voice, nor be afraid of their number, so will the Lord of hosts descend in order to battle upon mount Zion and upon its hill.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Like birds flying, so will the Lord of hosts protect Jerusalem, protecting and freeing, passing over and saving.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Be converted to the same depth that you have drawn away, O sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For in that day, a man will cast away his idols of silver and his idols of gold, which your hands have made for you unto sin.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Assur will fall by a sword not of man, and a sword not of man will devour him. And he will not flee from the face of the sword, and his young men will be subject to a penalty.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And his strength will pass away in terror, and his princes will flee in fear. The Lord has said it. His fire is in Zion, and his furnace is at Jerusalem.</p>

</body>
</html>