<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "In that time, says the Lord, I will be the God of all the families of Israel, and they will be my people."</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thus says the Lord: "The people who had remained after the sword, found grace in the desert. Israel will go to his rest."</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The Lord appeared to me from a distance: "And I have loved you in perpetual charity. Therefore, showing pity, I have drawn you.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will build you up again. And you shall be built up, O virgin of Israel. Still shall you be adorned with your timbrels, and still shall you go forth to the singing of those who play.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Still shall you plant vineyards on the mountains of Samaria. The planters will plant, and they will not gather the vintage until the time arrives.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For there will be a day on which the guardians on mount Ephraim will cry out: 'Arise! And let us ascend on Zion to the Lord our God!' "</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For thus says the Lord: "Exult in the joy of Jacob, and neigh before the head of the Gentiles. Shout, and sing, and say: 'O Lord, save your people, the remnant of Israel!'</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behold, I will lead them from the land of the north, and I will gather them from the ends of the earth. Among them will be the blind and the lame, she who is with child, together with she who is giving birth: a great assembly returning to this place.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They will approach with weeping. And I will lead them back with mercy. And I will lead them through the torrents of water, by an upright way, and they will not stumble in it. For I have become Father to Israel, and Ephraim is my firstborn."</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Listen to the word of the Lord, O Gentiles, and announce it amid the islands that are far away, and say: "Whoever has scattered Israel will gather him, and he will guard him as a shepherd guards his flock."</p>

<p><a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the Lord has redeemed Jacob, and he has freed him from the hand of one more powerful.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they will arrive and give praise on Mount Zion. And they will flow together, to the good things of the Lord, over grain, and wine, and oil, and the offspring of cattle and herds. And their soul will be like an irrigated garden, and they will no longer be hungry.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then the virgin will rejoice with singing, the young and the old together, and I will turn their mourning into gladness, and I will console them and gladden them after their sorrow.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will inebriate the soul of the priests with fatness, and my people will be filled with my good things, says the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thus says the Lord: "A voice has been heard on high: of lamentation, mourning, and weeping; of Rachel crying for her sons and refusing to be consoled over them, because they are not."</p>

<p><a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thus says the Lord: "Let your voice cease from crying and your eyes from tears. For there is a reward for your work, says the Lord. And they will return from the land of the enemy.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And there is hope for your very end, says the Lord. And the sons will return to their own borders.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Listening, I heard Ephraim going into captivity: 'You have chastised me, and I was instructed, like a young untamed bull. Convert me, and I shall be converted. For you are the Lord my God.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For after you converted me, I did penance. And after you revealed to me, I struck my thigh. I am confounded and ashamed. For I have endured the disgrace of my youth.'</p>

<p><a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Certainly, Ephraim is an honorable son to me; surely, he is a tender child. For I will still remember him, as in the time when I first spoke about him. Because my heart is stirred up over him, surely I will take pity on him, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Establish a watchtower for yourself. Place yourself in bitterness. Direct your heart into the upright way, in which you used to walk. Return, return, O virgin of Israel, to these your cities!</p>

<p><a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> How long will you be absorbed in delights, O wandering daughter? For the Lord has created something new upon the earth: a woman will encompass a man."</p>

<p><a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: "Still they will speak this word in the land of Judah, and in its cities, when I will convert their captivity: 'May the Lord bless you, the beauty of justice, the holy mountain.'</p>

<p><a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they will live in it: Judah together with all its cities, the farmer and those who drive the flocks.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For I have inebriated the weary soul, and I have satisfied every hungry soul.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Over this, I was awakened, as if from a deep sleep. And I saw, and my sleep became sweet to me.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Behold, the days are approaching, says the Lord, when I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the offspring of men and with the offspring of cattle.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And just as I have watched over them, so that I may root up, and tear down, and scatter, and destroy, and afflict, so will I watch over them, so that I may build and plant them, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> In those days, they will no longer say: 'The fathers ate a bitter grape, and the teeth of the sons have been affected.'</p>

<p><a id="c31_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Instead, each one will die for his own iniquity. Each man who will have eaten a bitter grape, his own teeth will be affected.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Behold, the days are approaching, says the Lord, when I will form a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers, in the day when I took them by the hand, so as to lead them away from the land of Egypt, the covenant which they nullified, though I was the ruler over them, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But this will be the covenant that I will form with the house of Israel, after those days, says the Lord: I will give my law to their inner most being, and I will write it upon their heart. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And they will no longer teach, a man his neighbor, and a man his brother, saying: 'Know the Lord.' For all will know me, from the littlest of them even to the greatest, says the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will no longer remember their sin.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Thus says the Lord, who gives the sun as the light of the day, who puts the moon and the stars in order as the light of the night, who stirs up the sea and makes its waves roar: the Lord of hosts is his name.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> If these laws fail in my sight, says the Lord, then the offspring of Israel will also fail, so that they will not be a people in my sight for all time."</p>

<p><a id="c31_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Thus says the Lord: "If the heavens above are able to be measured, and if the foundations of the earth beneath can be examined, I also will cast aside all the offspring of Israel, because of all that they have done, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Behold, the days are approaching, says the Lord, when a city will be built for the Lord from the tower of Hananel, even to the Gate of the Corner;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and the measuring line will go on even further in his sight, over the hill of Gareb, and it will encircle Goah</p>

<p><a id="c31_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> and the entire Valley of dead bodies and ashes, and the entire region of death, even to the torrent of Kedron, and to the corner of the Horse Gate to the east. All this will be the holy place of the Lord. It will not be rooted up, and it will not be torn down, anymore, forever."</p>

</body>
</html>