<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Listen to the word that the Lord has spoken concerning you, O house of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thus says the Lord: "Do not choose to learn according to the ways of the Gentiles. And do not be willing to dread the signs of heaven, which the Gentiles fear.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the laws of the people are empty. For the work of the hand of the craftsman has cut a tree from the forest with an axe.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He has adorned it with silver and gold. He has put it together with nail and hammer, so that it will not fall apart.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They have been fabricated in the likeness of a palm tree, and they will not speak. They must be carried to be moved, because they do not have the ability to walk. Therefore, do not be willing to fear them, for they can do neither evil nor good."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O Lord, there is nothing similar to you. You are great, and your name is great in strength.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Who will not fear you, O King of the nations? For honor is yours. Among all the wise of the nations, and within all their kingdoms, there is nothing similar to you.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Together, they will all be proven to be unwise and foolish. The doctrine of their vanity is made of wood.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Rolled silver is brought from Tarshish, and gold from Uphaz. It is the work of a craftsman, and of the hand of a coppersmith. Hyacinth and purple is their clothing. All these things are the work of artists.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But the Lord is the true God. He is the living God and the everlasting King. Before his indignation, the earth will shake. And the Gentiles will not be able to withstand his threats.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> "And so, you shall speak to them in this way: The gods that have not made heaven and earth, let them perish from the earth and from among those places which are under heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He made the earth by his power, he prepared the world in his wisdom, and he stretched out the heavens with his understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> At his voice, he grants a multitude of waters in the heavens, and he lifts up the clouds from the ends of the earth. He causes the lightning with the rain, and he leads forth the wind from his storehouses.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Every man has become a fool concerning knowledge; every artist has been confounded by his graven image. For what he has formed is false, and there is no spirit in these things.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> These things are empty, and they are a work deserving of ridicule. In the time of their visitation, they will perish.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jacob's portion is not like their portion. For his portion is from the One who formed all things. And Israel is the staff of his inheritance. The Lord of hosts is his name.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Gather your shame from the earth, you who are living under siege."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For thus says the Lord: "Behold, in this turn, I will cast the inhabitants of the land far away. And I will afflict them no matter where they may be found."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Woe to me, concerning my destruction! My wound is very grievous. And yet I said: Clearly, this infirmity is mine, and I will carry it.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My tent has been destroyed. All my cords have been broken. My sons have gone away from me; they did not remain. There is no one to stretch out my tent any more, nor to set up my curtains.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the pastors have acted foolishly, and they have not sought the Lord. Because of this, they have not understood, and all their flock has been dispersed.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Behold, the sound of a voice approaches, a great commotion from the land of the north: so that he may make the cities of Judah into a wilderness and into a dwelling place for serpents.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I know, O Lord, that the way of man is not his own. Neither is it given to man to walk and to direct his own steps.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Correct me, O Lord, yet truly, do so with judgment, and not in your fury. Otherwise, you will reduce me to nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Pour out your indignation upon the nations that have not known you, and upon the provinces that have not invoked your name. For they have fed upon Jacob, and devoured him, and consumed him, and they have utterly destroyed his honor.</p>

</body>
</html>