<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it happened that, in the seventh month, Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama of royal descent, with the nobles of the king, and accompanied by ten men, went to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, at Mizpah. And they ate bread together there, in Mizpah.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, rose up, and the ten men who were with him, and they struck down Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, with the sword, and they killed him whom the king of Babylon had made governor over the land.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Likewise, Ishmael struck down all the Jews who were with Gedaliah at Mizpah, with the Chaldeans who were found there, and the men of war.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then, on the second day after he had killed Gedaliah, while no one yet knew of it,</p>

<p><a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> men arrived from Shechem, and from Shiloh, and from Samaria, eighty men, with their beards shaved, and their garments rent, and unbathed. And they had gifts and frankincense in hand, so that they might make an offering in the house of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, departing from Mizpah to meet them, went forth weeping as he was walking. And when he had met them, he said to them, "Come to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam."</p>

<p><a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when they had arrived at the center of the city, Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, put them to death around the public cistern, he and the men who were with him.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But ten men were found among them, who said to Ishmael: "Do not kill us! For in the field we have storehouses of grain and barley and oil and honey." And so he ceased, and he did not put them to death with their brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Now the cistern, into which Ishmael cast all the dead bodies of the men whom he had struck down because of Gedaliah, is the same one that king Asa made out of fear of Baasha, the king of Israel. This same cistern Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, filled with those who were slain.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Ishmael led away captive all the remnant of the people who were at Mizpah, the king's daughters as well as all the people who remained at Mizpah, whom Nebuzaradan, the leader of the military, had committed to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam. And Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, seized them and went away, so that he might go over to the sons of Ammon.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all the leaders of the fighters who were with him, heard about all the evil that Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, had done.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And taking all the men, they set out to make war against Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah. And they found him at the great waters that are in Gibeon.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And when all the people who were with Ishmael had seen Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all the leaders of the fighters who were with him, they rejoiced.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And all the people whom Ishmael had seized turned back to Mizpah. And they returned and went over to Johanan, the son of Kareah.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, fled with eight men from the face of Johanan, and they went over to the sons of Ammon.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all the leaders of the fighters who were with him, took from Mizpah the entire remnant of the common people, whom they had led away from Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, after he had struck down Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam. These were strong men of battle, and women, and children, and eunuchs: those whom he had led away from Gibeon.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they went away and settled as sojourners at Chimham, which is near Bethlehem, so that they might continue on and enter into Egypt,</p>

<p><a id="c41_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> away from the face of the Chaldeans. For they were afraid of them, because Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, had struck down Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, whom the king of Babylon had made governor in the land of Judah.</p>

</body>
</html>