<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 49</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 49</h2>

<p><a id="c49_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Against the sons of Ammon. Thus says the Lord: "Does Israel have no sons? Or is there no heir for him? Then why has Milcom possessed the inheritance of Gad, and why have his people lived in his cities?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore, behold, the days are approaching, says the Lord, when I will cause the noise of battle to be heard over Rabbah of the sons of Ammon. And it will be scattered into a tumult, and her daughters will be burned with fire. And Israel shall possess those who had possessed him, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Wail, O Heshbon! For Ai has been devastated. Cry out, O daughters of Rabbah! Wrap yourselves with haircloth. Mourn and circle the hedges. For Milcom will be led into the transmigration: his priests and his leaders together.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Why have you gloried in the valleys? Your valley has flowed away, O delicate daughter, for you had confidence in your treasures, and you were saying, 'Who can approach me?'</p>

<p><a id="c49_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, I will lead a terror over you, says the Lord, the God of hosts, from those who are all around you. And you will be dispersed, each one from before your sight. There will be no one who will gather together those who are fleeing.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And after this, I will cause the captives of the sons of Ammon to return, says the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c49_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Against Idumea. Thus says the Lord of hosts: "Is there no longer any wisdom in Teman? Counsel has perished from the sons. Their wisdom has become useless.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Flee and turn your backs! Descend into the chasm, O inhabitants of Dedan! For I have brought the perdition of Esau over him, the time of his visitation.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If those who gather grapes had passed by you, would they not have left behind a cluster? If there were thieves in the night, they would seize what was enough for themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet truly, I have stripped Esau bare. I have revealed his secrets, and he is not able to be concealed. His offspring has been devastated, with his brothers and his neighbors, and he himself will not exist.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Leave behind your orphans. I will make sure that they live. And your widows will hope in me."</p>

<p><a id="c49_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For thus says the Lord: "Behold, those who judged that they would not drink the cup, will certainly drink. And so, will you be released as if you were innocent? You will not be released as if innocent. Instead, you shall certainly drink.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I have sworn by myself, says the Lord, that Bozrah will be a desolation, and a disgrace, and a wasteland, and a curse. And all her cities will be a perpetual wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have heard a report from the Lord, and an legate has been sent to the nations: 'Gather yourselves together, and go forth against her, and let us rise up to battle.'</p>

<p><a id="c49_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For behold, I have made you little among the nations, contemptible among men.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Your arrogance has deceived you, by the pride of your heart, you who live in the caverns of the rock and who strive to take hold of the height of the hill. But even if you make your nest like that of an eagle, I will pull you down from there, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Idumea will be a desert. Everyone who passes by it will be stupefied and will hiss over all its wounds.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Just as Sodom and Gomorrah and their neighbors were overthrown, says the Lord: there will not be a man living there, and no son of man will tend it.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, he will ascend like a lion from the arrogance of the Jordan, against the robust beauty. For I will cause him to rush against her suddenly. And who will be the elect one, whom I may appoint over her? For who is like me? And who can endure me? And who is that pastor who can withstand my countenance?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Because of this, listen to the counsel of the Lord, which he has undertaken concerning Edom, and to his thoughts, which he has devised concerning the inhabitants of Teman. Certainly, the little ones of the flock will cast them down, unless they scatter them with their habitation.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The earth has been shaken at the noise of their destruction. The outcry of their voice has been heard at the Red Sea.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Behold, he will ascend like an eagle and will fly. And he will spread his wings over Bozrah. And in that day, the heart of the strong ones of Idumea will be like the heart of a woman giving birth."</p>

<p><a id="c49_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Against Damascus. "Hamath has been confounded, with Arpad. For they have heard a most grievous report. They have been stirred up like the sea. Because of anxiousness, they were not able to rest.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Damascus has been broken. She has been turned to flight. Trembling has taken hold of her. Anguish and sorrows have seized her, like a woman giving birth.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> How could they have abandoned the praiseworthy city, the city of rejoicing?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For this reason, her young men will fall in her streets. And all the men of battle will be silenced in that day, says the Lord of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And I will kindle a fire at the wall of Damascus, and it will devour the defensive walls of Ben-hadad."</p>

<p><a id="c49_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Against Kedar and against the kingdoms of Hazor, which Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, has struck down. Thus says the Lord: "Rise up and ascend to Kedar, and lay waste to the sons of the East.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> They will seize their tabernacles and their flocks. And they will take for themselves their tents, and all their vessels, and their camels. And they will call down a terror upon them on every side.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Flee, go away urgently! Sit in deep pits, you who inhabit Hazor, says the Lord. For Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, has undertaken a counsel against you, and he has devised plans against you.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Rise up, and ascend to a nation that is quiet and lives in confidence, says the Lord. They have neither gates nor bars. They dwell alone.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And their camels will be a spoil, and the multitude of their cattle will be a prey. And I will disperse, into every wind, those who have shaved their hair. And from all their confines, I will lead great destruction over them, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Hazor will be a habitation for serpents, deserted even unto eternity. No man will abide there, nor will a son of man tend it."</p>

<p><a id="c49_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The word of the Lord that came to Jeremiah the prophet against Elam, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah, the king of Judah, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c49_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> "Thus says the Lord of hosts: Behold, I will break the bow of Elam, and the summit of their strength.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And I will lead the four winds over Elam, from the four corners of heaven. And I will scatter them into all these winds. And there will be no nation to which the fugitives of Elam will not travel.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And I will cause Elam to be terrified before their enemies and in the sight of those who seek their life. And I will lead an evil over them, the wrath of my fury, says the Lord. And I will send the sword after them, until I consume them.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And I will set my throne in Elam, and I will perish the kings and princes from there, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But in the last days, I will cause the captives of Elam to return, says the Lord."</p>

</body>
</html>