<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 37</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 37</h2>

<p><a id="c37_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And then king Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, reigned in place of Jeconiah, the son of Jehoiakim. For Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, appointed him as king in the land of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And neither he himself, nor his servants, nor the people of the land, obeyed the words of the Lord, which he spoke by the hand of Jeremiah, the prophet.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And king Zedekiah sent Jehucal, the son of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah, the son of Maaseiah, the priest, to Jeremiah the prophet, saying: "Pray to the Lord our God for us."</p>

<p><a id="c37_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now Jeremiah was walking freely in the midst of the people. For they had not yet sent him into the custody of the prison. And then the army of Pharaoh went forth from Egypt. And hearing this, the Chaldeans, who were besieging Jerusalem, withdrew from Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah the prophet, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c37_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> "Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: So shall you say to the king of Judah, who sent you to question me: Behold, the army of Pharaoh, which has gone forth in assistance to you, will return to their own land, into Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the Chaldeans will return and will make war against this city. And they will seize it and burn it with fire.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thus says the Lord: Do not be willing to deceive your own souls, saying: 'The Chaldeans will certainly withdraw and go away from us.' For they will not go away.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But even if you were to strike down the entire army of the Chaldeans who are fighting against you, and if there were left behind from among them only a few wounded men, they would rise up, each one from his tent, and they would burn this city with fire."</p>

<p><a id="c37_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, when the army of the Chaldeans had withdrawn from Jerusalem because of Pharaoh's army,</p>

<p><a id="c37_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jeremiah went forth from Jerusalem, to go into the land of Benjamin, and to distribute a possession there, in the sight of the citizens.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when he had arrived at the gate of Benjamin, the keeper of the gate, whose turn it was to be there, was named Irijah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Hananiah. And he apprehended Jeremiah the prophet, saying, "You are fleeing to the Chaldeans."</p>

<p><a id="c37_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Jeremiah responded: "That is false. I am not fleeing to the Chaldeans." But he did not listen to him. And so Irijah took Jeremiah, and he brought him to the leaders.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore, the leaders were angry with Jeremiah, and so they beat him and sent him to the prison that was in the house of Jonathan, the scribe. For he was the chief over the prison.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And so Jeremiah went into the house of the prison and into a dungeon. And Jeremiah sat there for many days.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then Zedekiah the king, sending, took him out and questioned him secretly in his house, and he said: "Do you think that there is any word from the Lord?" And Jeremiah said: "There is." And he said: "You will be delivered into the hands of the king of Babylon."</p>

<p><a id="c37_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jeremiah said to king Zedekiah: "How have I sinned against you, or your servants, or your people, such that you would cast me into a house of imprisonment?</p>

<p><a id="c37_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Where are your prophets, who were prophesying to you, and who were saying: 'The king of Babylon will not overwhelm you and this land?'</p>

<p><a id="c37_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now therefore, listen, I beg you, my lord the king. Let my petition prevail in your sight. And do not send me back into the house of Jonathan the scribe, lest I die there."</p>

<p><a id="c37_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then king Zedekiah instructed that Jeremiah be confined to the vestibule of the prison, and that they should give him a twist of bread daily, along with stew, until all the bread in the city had been consumed. And Jeremiah remained at the entrance of the prison.</p>

</body>
</html>