<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 39</h2>

<p><a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the ninth year of Zedekiah, the king of Judah, in the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem, with his entire army, and they besieged it.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then, in the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, on the fifth of the month, the city was opened.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And all the rulers of the king of Babylon entered and were seated at the middle gate: Nergal-Sharezer, the priest of Nebo, Sarsechim, the chief eunuch, Nergal-Sharezer, the chief magi, and all the other rulers of the king of Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when Zedekiah, the king of Judah, with all the men of war, had seen them, they fled. And they departed from the city at night, by way of the king's garden, and through the gate which was between the two walls. And they departed along the way of the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But the army of the Chaldeans pursued them. And they overtook Zedekiah in the plain of the desert of Jericho. And having captured him, they led him to Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, at Riblah, which is in the land of Hamath. And he declared a judgment against him</p>

<p><a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the king of Babylon killed the sons of Zedekiah, at Riblah, before his eyes. And the king of Babylon killed all the nobles of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Also, he plucked out the eyes of Zedekiah. And he bound him with fetters, to be led away to Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Also, the Chaldeans burned the house of the king and the house of the people with fire, and they overturned the wall of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Nebuzaradan, the leader of the military, carried away captive to Babylon the remnant of the people who had remained in the city, and the fugitives who had fled to him, and all the rest of the people who had remained.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Nebuzaradan, the leader of the military, released some of the poor people, those who had almost nothing, into the land of Judah. And he gave them vineyards and cisterns in that day.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, had instructed Nebuzaradan, the leader of the military, about Jeremiah, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> "Take him, and set your eyes on him, and you shall do no harm to him at all. But as he is willing, so shall you do with him."</p>

<p><a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore, Nebuzaradan, the leader of the military, sent, and Nebushazban, the chief eunuch, and Nergal-Sharezer, the chief magi, and all the nobles of the king of Babylon sent,</p>

<p><a id="c39_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and they took Jeremiah from the vestibule of the prison, and they delivered him to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, so that he could enter a house and live among the people.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But the word of the Lord had come to Jeremiah, when he had been confined to the vestibule of the prison, saying: "Go, and speak to Ebedmelech, the Ethiopian, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c39_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will bring my words over this city for evil, and not for good; and they shall be in your sight in that day.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I will free you in that day, says the Lord. And you will not be delivered into the hands of the men whom you dread.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But when delivering, I will free you. And you will not fall by the sword. Instead, your life will be saved for you, because you had faith in me, says the Lord."</p>

</body>
</html>