<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Lord revealed to me, and behold, two baskets full of figs were set before the temple of the Lord, after Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, carried away Jeconiah, the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, and his leaders, and the craftsmen and engravers of Jerusalem, and led them into Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> One basket had exceedingly good figs, like the figs usually found early in the season, and the other basket had exceedingly bad figs, which could not be eaten because they were so bad.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the Lord said to me: "What do you see, Jeremiah?" And I said: "Figs: the good figs are very good, and the bad figs are very bad and cannot be eaten because they are so bad."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> "Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Just like these good figs, so will I regard as good the captives of Judah, whom I have sent from this place into the land of the Chaldeans.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I will set my eyes upon them, so as to be pleased. And I will lead them back into this land. And I will build them up, and I will not tear them down. And I will plant them, and I will not uproot them.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I will give them a heart, so that they may know me, that I am the Lord. And they will be my people, and I will be their God. For they shall return to me with their whole heart.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And just like the very bad figs, which cannot be eaten because they are so bad, thus says the Lord: so will I regard Zedekiah, the king of Judah, and his leaders, and the rest of Jerusalem, those who have remained in this city, and those who are living in the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I will give them over, with upheaval and affliction, to all the kingdoms of the earth: to be a disgrace, and a parable, and a proverb, and a curse in all the places to which I have cast them out.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I will send among them the sword, and famine, and pestilence: until they have been worn away from the land, which I gave to them and to their fathers."</p>

</body>
</html>