<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "Woe to the shepherds who scatter and tear apart the sheep of my pasture, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Because of this, thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, to the shepherds who pasture my people: You have scattered my flock, and you have driven them away, and you have not visited them. Behold, I will visit upon you because of your evil pursuits, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I will gather together the remnant of my flock from the entire earth, from the places to which I had cast them out. And I will return them to their own fields. And they will increase and be multiplied.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will raise up shepherds over them, and they will pasture them. They will no longer dread, and they will no longer fear. And no one among their number will be seeking more, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, the days are approaching, says the Lord, when I will raise up to David a righteous branch. And a king will reign, and he will be wise. And he will exercise judgment and justice upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In those days, Judah will be saved, and Israel will live in confidence. And this is the name that they will call him: 'The Lord, our Just One.'</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Because of this, behold, the days are approaching, says the Lord, when they will no longer say, 'As the Lord lives, who led the sons of Israel away from the land of Egypt,'</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but instead, 'As the Lord lives, who led away and brought back the offspring of the house of Israel from the land of the north and from the entire earth,' from the places to which I had cast them out. And they will live in their own land."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> To the prophets: "My heart is crushed within me. All my bones are trembling. I have become like an inebriated man, and like a man maddened by wine, before the face of the Lord, and before the face of his holy words.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the earth is full of adulterers! And the earth has mourned before the face of evil talk. The plains of the desert have dried up, and their course has become hazardous, and their firmness has become uneven."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> "For both the prophet and the priest have become polluted, and I have found their wickedness within my own house, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For this reason, their way will be like a slippery path in the dark. For they will be impelled forward, and they will fall in it. For I will bring evils over them, in the year of their visitation, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I have seen the foolishness of the prophets of Samaria. They have prophesied in Baal, and they have deceived my people Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And in the prophets of Jerusalem, I have seen the likeness of adulterers and the path of falsehood. And they have strengthened the hands of the wicked, so that each one would not convert from his malice. They have all become to me like Sodom, and its inhabitants have become like Gomorrah."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Because of this, thus says the Lord of hosts to the prophets: "Behold, I will feed them absinthe, and I will give them gall to drink. For from the prophets of Jerusalem corruption has gone forth over the entire earth."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thus says the Lord of hosts: "Do not choose to listen to the words of the prophets who prophesy to you and deceive you. They speak a vision from their own heart, and not from the mouth of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> To those who blaspheme me, they say: 'The Lord has said: You shall have peace.' And to every one who walks in the depravity of his own heart, they have said: 'No evil will overwhelm you.' "</p>

<p><a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For who has been present in the counsel of the Lord, and who has seen and heard his word? Who has considered his word and heard it?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, the whirlwind of the Lord's indignation will go forth, and a tempest will break out; it will overwhelm the head of the impious.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The fury of the Lord will not return until it succeeds, and until it completes the plan of his heart. In the last days, you will understand this counsel.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> "I did not send these prophets, yet they hurry forward. I was not speaking to them, yet they were prophesying.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> If they had stood in my counsel, and if I had made my words known to my people, certainly I would have turned them away from their evil ways and from their most wicked plans.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Do you not realize that I am a God close by, says the Lord, and not a God far away?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If a man is hidden in concealed places, do I not see him, says the Lord? Do I not fill up heaven and earth, says the Lord?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I have heard what the prophets have said, prophesying falsehoods in my name, and also saying: 'I have dreamed! I have dreamed!'</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> How long will this be in the heart of the prophets who predict what is false, and who prophesy deceptions from their own heart?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They want to cause my people to forget my name, by means of their dreams, which each of them describes to his neighbor, just as their fathers forgot my name for the sake of Baal.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The prophet who has had a dream, let him describe the dream. And he who receives my word, let him speak my word in truth. For what has the chaff to do with the wheat, says the Lord?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Are not my words like a fire, says the Lord, and like a hammer crushing rock?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Therefore, behold: I am against the prophets, says the Lord, who steal my words, each one from his neighbor.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Behold, I am against the prophets, says the Lord, who take up their tongues and say: 'The Lord says it.'</p>

<p><a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Behold, I am against the prophets, who dream what is false, says the Lord; who explain and so seduce my people with their falsehoods and with their miracles, though I did not send them, nor did I command them. They have offer nothing beneficial to this people, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Therefore, if this people, or a prophet, or a priest questions you, saying, 'What is the burden of the Lord?' you shall say to them, 'You are the burden. And certainly I will cast you away, says the Lord.'</p>

<p><a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And as for the prophet, and the priest, and the people who say, 'The burden of the Lord!' I will visit upon that man and upon his house.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And then you will speak in this way, each one to his neighbor and to his brother: 'What has the Lord answered? And what has the Lord said?'</p>

<p><a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And the burden of the Lord will be no longer be called to mind. For each one's own word will be a burden. For you have perverted the words of the living God, of the Lord of hosts, our God.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And then you will speak in this way to the prophet: 'What has the Lord answered you? And what has the Lord spoken?'</p>

<p><a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But if you say, 'The burden of the Lord!' then because of this, thus says the Lord: Since you have spoken this word, 'The burden of the Lord!' though I sent to you telling you not to say: 'The burden of the Lord,'</p>

<p><a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> because of this, behold, I will take you away, like a burden, and I will forsake you, as well as the city that I gave to you and to your fathers, before my face.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And I will give you over to an everlasting reproach and an eternal disgrace, which shall never be wiped away into oblivion."</p>

</body>
</html>