<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 48</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 48</h2>

<p><a id="c48_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Against Moab, thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: "Woe upon Nebo! For it has been devastated and confounded. Kiriathaim has been seized; the strong one has been confounded and has trembled.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> There is no longer any rejoicing in Moab over Heshbon. They have devised evil. 'Come and let us destroy it as a nation.' Then you will be utterly silenced, and the sword will pursue you.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A voice of clamor from Horonaim: devastation and great destruction!</p>

<p><a id="c48_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Moab has been crushed. Announce an outcry for her little ones.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For, along the ascent of Luhith, the mourner will ascend with weeping. For, on the descent of Horonaim, the enemies have heard the wailing of devastation.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Flee, save your lives! And you shall be like a saltcedar tree in the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For because you have had faith in your fortifications and in your storehouses, you too will be seized. And Chemosh will go into captivity: his priests and his leaders together.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the despoiler will overwhelm every city, and not a single city will be saved. And the valleys will perish, and the fields will be destroyed. For the Lord has spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Give a blossom to Moab. For it will depart when it is blossoming. And its cities will become desolate and uninhabited.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Cursed is he who does the work of the Lord deceitfully. And cursed is he who prohibits his sword from blood.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Moab has been fertile from his youth, and he has rested amid his brood. And he has not been transferred from vessel to vessel, nor has he gone into the transmigration. Therefore, his taste has remained with him, and his scent has not changed.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Because of this, behold, the days are approaching, says the Lord, when I will send to him those who will line up and knock down his bottles, and they will knock him down and empty his vessels, and they will break their bottles against one another.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Moab will be confounded by Chemosh, just as the house of Israel was shamed by Bethel, in which they had faith.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> How can you say: 'We are strong and robust men of battle?'</p>

<p><a id="c48_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Moab has been devastated, and they have cut down her cities. And her elect young men have descended to slaughter. So says the King, whose name is the Lord of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The passing away of Moab draws near and arrives. Its evil will rush forward with great speed.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Console him, all you who surround him and all you who know his name. Say: 'How has the strong staff become broken, the glorious staff?'</p>

<p><a id="c48_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Descend from your glory, and sit in thirst, O habitation of the daughter of Dibon! For the destroyer of Moab has ascended to you; he has dissipated your fortifications.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Stand in the way, and gaze out, O habitation of Aroer! Question him who is fleeing, and say to him who has escaped: 'What has happened?'</p>

<p><a id="c48_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Moab has been confounded, because he has been conquered. Wail and cry out! Announce it in Arnon: Moab has been devastated,</p>

<p><a id="c48_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and judgment has arrived upon the land of the plains: upon Holon, and upon Jahzah, and upon Mephaath,</p>

<p><a id="c48_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and upon Dibon, and upon Nebo, and upon the house of Deblathaim,</p>

<p><a id="c48_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and upon Kiriathaim, and upon the house of Gamul, and upon the house of Meon,</p>

<p><a id="c48_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and upon Kerioth, and upon Bozrah, and upon all the cities of the land of Moab, those far away and those nearby.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The horn of Moab has been cut away, and his arm has been crushed, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Inebriate him, for he has lifted himself up against the Lord. And Moab will thrust his hand into his own vomit, and also now he himself will become a derision.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For Israel had been a derision to them. It was as if you had discovered him among thieves. Because of your own words, then, which you have spoken against him, you will be led away captive.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Relinquish the cities, and live upon a rock, O inhabitants of Moab, and be like a dove nesting at the mouth of an opening at the summit.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> We have listened to the arrogance of Moab; he is very proud: his exaltation, and arrogance, and pride, and the loftiness of his heart.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I myself know, says the Lord, his boasting, and that his ability is not in accord with it, nor is it in accord with what he has been striving to do.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For this reason, I will wail over Moab, and I will cry out to all of Moab, to the men on the brick wall who are lamenting.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> O vineyard of Sibmah, I will weep for you, with the mourning of Jazer. Your offshoots have crossed over the sea. They have reached even to the sea of Jazer. The despoiler has rushed over your harvest and your vintage.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Rejoicing and exultation has been taken away from Carmel and from the land of Moab. And I have taken the wine from the winepresses. The treader of grapes will no longer sing the usual rhythmic chant.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> From the outcry of Heshbon, even to Elealeh and Jahzah, they have uttered their voice; from Zoar, even to Horonaim, like a three year old calf. So too, the waters of Nimrim will be very bad.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And I will take away from Moab, says the Lord, the one who makes offerings in exalted places, and the one who sacrifices to his gods.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Because of this, my heart will resound for Moab, like the pipes, and my heart will make a sound like the pipes for the men on the brick wall. For he has done more than he was able, yet still they have perished.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For every head will be bald, and every beard will be shaved. All the hands will be bound together, and there will be haircloth on every back.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Over all the rooftops of Moab, and in its streets, everyone will mourn. For I have crushed Moab like a useless vessel, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> How was it conquered, so that they would wail? How is it that Moab has cast down his neck and been confounded? And Moab will be a derision and an example to everyone around him."</p>

<p><a id="c48_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Thus says the Lord: "Behold, he will fly like the eagle, and he will extend his wings to Moab.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Kerioth has been captured, and the fortifications have been taken. And in that day, the heart of the strong ones of Moab will be like the heart of a woman giving birth.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And Moab will cease to be a people. For he has been glorified against the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Terror and the pit and the snare will overwhelm you, O inhabitant of Moab, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Whoever flees from the terror will fall into the pit. And whoever climbs out of the pit will be seized by the snare. For I will lead over Moab the year of their visitation, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Those fleeing from the snare stood in the shadow of Heshbon. For a fire has gone forth from Heshbon, and a flame from the midst of Sihon, and it will devour the portion of Moab, and the top of the head of the sons of tumult.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Woe to you, O Moab! You have been ruined, O people of Chemosh! For your sons and your daughters have been taken into captivity.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> But I will convert the captivity of Moab in the last days, says the Lord." Such are the judgments of Moab thus far.</p>

</body>
</html>