<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "It is commonly said: 'If a man has divorced his wife, and she departs from him, she will marry another man.' So why would he return to her again? Is not that woman polluted and defiled? But you have fornicated yourself with many lovers. Even so, return to me, says the Lord, and I will accept you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Lift your eyes straight up, and see where you did not debase yourself. You were sitting in the roadways, waiting for them, like a robber in the wilderness. And you have polluted the land by your fornications and by your wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For this reason, the rain showers were withheld, and there were no late season rains. You made your face like that of a promiscuous woman; you were not willing to blush.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore, at least from this moment on, call out to me: 'You are my father, the guide of my virginity.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why should you be angry unceasingly? And will you continue in this to the end? Behold, you have spoken and done evil, for you were able to do so."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And, in the days of king Josiah, the Lord said to me: "Have you not seen what the apostate Israel has done? She has brought herself up to every lofty mountain, and she has lain down under every leafy tree, and she has committed fornication there.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when she had done all these things, I said: 'Return to me.' But she did not return. And her deceitful sister Judah saw this:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> that because the apostate Israel had committed adultery, I had dismissed her and had given her a bill of divorce. Yet her deceitful sister Judah was not afraid. But she, too, went and committed fornication herself.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And by the act of her fornication, she defiled the land. For she committed adultery with that which is stone and wood.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And after all these things, her deceitful sister Judah has not returned to me with her whole heart, but with lies, says the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Lord said to me: "The apostate Israel has justified her own soul by comparing herself to the deceitful Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Go, and proclaim these words toward the north, and you shall say: Return, O apostate Israel, says the Lord. For I will not avert my face from you. For I am holy, says the Lord, and I will not be angry forever.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So then, truly acknowledge your iniquity, that you have betrayed the Lord your God, and that you have spread your ways to strangers, under every leafy tree, and that you have not listened to my voice, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Convert, O rebellious sons, says the Lord. For I am your leader. And so, I will take you, one from a city, and two from a family, and I will lead you into Zion.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I will give you pastors according to my own heart. And they will feed you with knowledge and doctrine.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when you have been multiplied and increased in the land in those days, says the Lord, they will no longer say: 'The Ark of the covenant of the Lord!' And it will not enter into the heart, and they will not call it to mind. It will neither be visited, nor made use of, any longer.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> In that time, Jerusalem will be called: 'The Throne of the Lord.' And all the nations will be gathered to it, in the name of the Lord, in Jerusalem. And they will not walk after the depravity of their own most wicked heart.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In those days, the house of Judah will go to the house of Israel, and they will come from the land of the north, at the same time, to the land that I gave to your fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But I said: How shall I place you among the sons, and distribute to you a desirable land, the preeminent inheritance of the host of the Gentiles? And I said: You will call me Father, and you will not cease to walk after me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But, in the same way that a woman spurns her lover, so also has the house of Israel spurned me, says the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> A voice has been heard in the highways, the weeping and wailing of the sons of Israel. For they have made their own ways sinful; they have forgotten the Lord their God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> "Convert, O rebellious sons! And I will heal your rebelliousness." "Behold, we are returning to you. For you are the Lord our God!</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Truly, the hills were liars, with the multitude of the mountains. Truly, the salvation of Israel is in the Lord our God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Confusion has devoured the labor of our fathers, from our youth, with their flocks and their herds, with their sons and their daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> We will sleep in our confusion, and our disgrace will cover us. For we have sinned against the Lord our God: we and our fathers, from our youth, even to this day. And we have not listened to the voice of the Lord our God."</p>

</body>
</html>