<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it happened in the fourth year of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, the king of Judah: it happened that this word came to Jeremiah from the Lord, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Take the volume of a book, and you shall write in it all the words that I have spoken to you against Israel and Judah, and against all the nations, from the day when I first spoke to you, from the days of Josiah, even to this day.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Perhaps it may be that the house of Judah, upon hearing all the evils that I have decided to do to them, may return, each one from his wicked way, and then I will forgive their iniquity and their sin."</p>

<p><a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore, Jeremiah called Baruch, the son of Neriah, and Baruch wrote, from the mouth of Jeremiah, all the words of the Lord, which he had spoken to him, in the volume of a book.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jeremiah instructed Baruch, saying: "I am confined, and so I am unable to enter into the house of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, you shall enter and read from the volume, in which you have written from my mouth the words of the Lord, in the hearing of the people in the house of the Lord on the day of the fast. Moreover, you shall also read them in the hearing of all those of Judah who are arriving from their cities.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Perhaps it may happen that they pray in the sight of the Lord, and each one may return from his wicked way. For great is the fury and indignation that the Lord has declared against this people."</p>

<p><a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Baruch, the son of Neriah, acted in accord with all that Jeremiah, the prophet, had instructed him, reading from the volume the words of the Lord, in the house of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And it happened that, in the fifth year of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, the king of Judah, in the ninth month, they proclaimed a fast, in the sight of the Lord, to all the people in Jerusalem, and to the entire multitude which had flowed together, from the cities of Judah, into Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Baruch read from the volume the words of Jeremiah in the house of the Lord, at the treasury of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, the scribe, in the upper vestibule, at the entrance to the new gate of the house of the Lord, in the hearing of all the people.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when Micaiah, the son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, had heard all the words of the Lord from the book,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> he descended to the house of the king, to the treasury of the scribe. And behold, all the leaders were sitting there: Elishama, the scribe, and Delaiah, the son of Shemaiah, and Elnathan, the son of Achbor, and Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, and Zedekiah, the son of Hananiah, and all the leaders.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Micaiah announced to them all the words that he had heard when Baruch read from the volume to the ears of the people.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And so, all the leaders sent Jehudi, the son of Nethaniah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi, to Baruch, saying, "Take in your hand the volume, from which you have read in the hearing of the people, and come." Therefore, Baruch, the son of Neriah, took the volume in his hand, and he went to them.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they said to him, "Sit and read these things in our hearing." And Baruch read in their hearing.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, when they had heard all the words, each one looked at his neighbor in astonishment, and they said to Baruch: "We ought to report all these words to the king."</p>

<p><a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they questioned him, saying, "Describe to us how you wrote all these words from his mouth."</p>

<p><a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then Baruch said to them: "He was speaking with his mouth, as if reading to me. And I wrote in a volume with ink."</p>

<p><a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the leaders said to Baruch: "Go away and hide, you and Jeremiah, and let no one know where you are."</p>

<p><a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they entered to the king, in the court. Furthermore, they stored the volume in the treasury of Elishama, the scribe. And they announced all the words in the hearing of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the king sent Jehudi to take the volume. And bringing it from the treasury of Elishama, the scribe, he read it in the hearing of the king and of all the leaders who were standing around the king.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Now the king was sitting in the winter house, in the ninth month. And there was a hearth placed before him, filled with burning coals.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And when Jehudi had read three or four pages, he cut it with a small knife, and he threw it into the fire which was upon the hearth, until the entire volume was consumed by the fire which was upon the hearth.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the king and all his servants, who had heard all these words, were not afraid, and they did not rend their garments.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Yet truly, Elnathan, and Delaiah, and Gemariah contradicted the king, so that he might not burn the book. But he did not listen to them.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the king instructed Jerahmeel, the son of Amelech, and Seraiah, the son of Azriel, and Shelemiah, the son of Abdeel, so that they would apprehend Baruch, the scribe, and Jeremiah, the prophet. But the Lord concealed them.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And after the king had burned the volume and the words that Baruch had written from the mouth of Jeremiah, the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah, the prophet, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c36_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> "Again, take another volume and write in it all the former words, which were in the first volume that Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, has burned.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And you shall say to Jehoiakim, the king of Judah: Thus says the Lord: You have burned that volume, saying: 'Why have you written in it, announcing that the king of Babylon will advance quickly, and will devastate this land, and will cause both man and beast to cease from it?'</p>

<p><a id="c36_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Because of this, thus says the Lord against Jehoiakim, the king of Judah: There will be, from him, no one who may sit upon the throne of David. And his dead body shall be cast out: to the heat by day, and to the frost by night.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And I will visit against him, and against his offspring, and against his servants for their iniquities. And I will lead over them, and over the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and over the men of Judah, all the evil that I have declared against them, for they have not listened."</p>

<p><a id="c36_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then Jeremiah took up another volume, and he gave it to Baruch, the son of Neriah, the scribe, who wrote in it, from the mouth of Jeremiah, all the words of the book that Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, had burned with fire. And moreover, there were many more words added than there had been before.</p>

</body>
</html>