<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> This is the word that came to Jeremiah from the Lord, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, saying: You shall write in a book all the words that I have spoken to you.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For behold, the days are approaching, says the Lord, when I will convert the turning away of my people, Israel and Judah, says the Lord. And I will return them to the land which I gave to their fathers, and they will possess it."</p>

<p><a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And these are the words which the Lord has spoken to Israel and to Judah:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For thus says the Lord: 'We have heard a voice of terror. There is dread, and there is no peace.'</p>

<p><a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Inquire and see, does a male give birth? Then why have I seen every man with his hand on his lower back, like a woman bearing a child? And why have all of their faces turned pale?</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Woe! For that day is great, and there is nothing like it. For it is the time of tribulation for Jacob, but he will be saved from it.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And this shall be in that day, says the Lord of hosts: I will crush his yoke from your neck, and I will break open his bands. And strangers will no longer rule over him.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Instead, they will serve the Lord their God, and David their king, whom I will raise up for them.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, O my servant Jacob, you should not be afraid, says the Lord, and you should not be frightened, O Israel. For behold, I will save you from a far away land, and your offspring from the land of their captivity. And Jacob will return and have rest, and he shall flow with every good thing. And there will be no one for him to dread.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For I am with you, says the Lord, so that I may save you. For I will bring about the consummation of all the nations, among which I have scattered you. But I will not bring about your consummation. Instead, I will chastise you in judgment, so that you will not seem innocent to yourself."</p>

<p><a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For thus says the Lord: "Your fracture is incurable; your wound is very serious.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> There is no one who may judge your judgment, so as to bandage it; there is no useful treatment for you.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> All your lovers have forgotten you, and they will not seek you. For I have wounded you with the strike of an enemy, with a cruel chastisement. Your sins have become hardened because of the multitude of your iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Why do you cry out over your affliction? Your pain is incurable. I have done these things to you because of the multitude of your iniquity and because of your hardened sins.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Because of this, all those who devour you, will be devoured. And all your enemies will be led into captivity. And those who devastate you, will be devastated. And all those who prey upon you, I will offer as a prey.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For I will close up your scar, and I will heal you of your wounds, says the Lord. For they have called you an outcast, O Zion: 'This is she who has no one asking for her.' "</p>

<p><a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thus says the Lord: "Behold, I will turn back the turning away of the tabernacles of Jacob, and I will take pity on his roofs. And the city will be built up in her heights, and the temple will be founded according to its order.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And praise will go forth from them, with the voice of those who play. And I will multiply them, and they will not be lessened. And I will glorify them, and they will not be weakened.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And their sons will be as in the beginning. And their assembly will remain in my sight. And I will visit against all those who trouble them.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And their ruler will one of their own. And their prince will be led forward from their midst. And I will draw him near, and he will cling to me. For who is the one who applies his heart, so that he may draw near to me, says the Lord?</p>

<p><a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And you shall be my people, and I will be your God."</p>

<p><a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Behold the whirlwind of the Lord, his fury going forth, a destroying storm! It will rest upon the head of the impious.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The Lord will not turn back the wrath of his indignation, until he has accomplished and completed the plan of his heart. In the last days, you shall understand these things.</p>

</body>
</html>