<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word that came from the Lord to Jeremiah, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Listen to the words of this covenant, and speak to the men of Judah and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And you shall say to them: Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Cursed is the man who will not listen to the words of this covenant,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> which I commanded to your fathers in the day when I led them away from the land of Egypt, away from the iron furnace, saying: Listen to my voice, and do all that I command you, and then you will be my people and I will be your God.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So shall I uphold the oath which I swore to your fathers, that I would give them a land flowing with milk and honey, just as it is this day." And I answered by saying: "Amen, O Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Lord said to me: "Shout all these words in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, saying: Listen to the words of the covenant, and do them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For when testing, I tested your fathers in the day when I led them away from the land of Egypt, even until this day. Rising early, I tested them, and I said: Listen to my voice.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But they did not listen, nor did they incline their ear. Instead, each one of them walked in the depravity of his own evil heart. And so, I brought over them all the words of this covenant, which I instructed them to do. But they would not do them."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the Lord said to me: "A conspiracy has been found among the men of Judah and among the inhabitants of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They have returned to the former iniquities of their fathers, who refused to listen to my words. And likewise, they have gone after strange gods, so that they may serve them. The house of Israel and the house of Judah have treated as void my covenant, which I made with their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For this reason, thus says the Lord: Behold, I will lead evils over them, from which they will not be able to escape. And they will cry out to me, and I will not heed them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem will go forth, and they will cry out to the gods, to whom they offer libations, and they will not save them in the time of their affliction.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For according to the number of your cities, so were your gods, O Judah. And according to the number of the streets of Jerusalem, so did you establish altars of confusion, altars to offer libations to Baal.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore, you should not choose to pray for this people, and you should not take up praise and petitioning on their behalf. For I will not heed them in the time of their outcry to me, in the time of their affliction.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Why has my beloved wrought great wickedness in my house? How can the holy flesh take away from you your wickedness, in which you have gloried?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The Lord has called your name: a beautiful, fruitful, splendid, and productive olive tree. At the voice of a word, a great fire was kindled in it, and its greenery was burned up.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the Lord of hosts, who planted you, has pronounced an evil against you, concerning the evils of the house of Israel and the house of Judah, which they have done to themselves so as to provoke me, by offering libations to Baal."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But you, O Lord, have revealed this to me, and I have understood. Then you displayed their efforts to me.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I was like a meek lamb, who is being carried to be a victim. And I did not realize that they had devised plans against me, saying: "Let us place wood upon his bread, and let us eradicate him from the land of the living, and let his name no longer be remembered."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But you, O Lord of hosts, who judges justly, and who tests the temperament and the heart, let me see your vengeance against them. For I have revealed my case to you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> "Because of this, thus says the Lord to the men of Anathoth, who are seeking your life, and who are saying: 'You shall not prophesy in the name of the Lord, and you shall not die by our hands.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Because of this, thus says the Lord of hosts: Behold, I will visit upon them. Their young men will die by the sword. Their sons and their daughters will die by famine.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And there will be nothing left of them. For I will lead an evil over the men of Anathoth: the year of their visitation."</p>

</body>
</html>