<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 47</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 47</h2>

<p><a id="c47_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of the Lord that came to Jeremiah, the prophet, against the Philistines, before Pharaoh struck Gaza.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thus says the Lord: "Behold, waters will rise up from the north, and they will be like an inundating torrent, and they will cover the land and its plenitude, the city and its inhabitants. The men will cry out, and all the inhabitants of the land will wail,</p>

<p><a id="c47_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> before the uproar of a procession of weapons and of his soldiers, before the commotion of his four-horse chariots and the multitude of his wheels. The fathers have not looked back for the sons, because of feebleness of hands,</p>

<p><a id="c47_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> because of the arrival of the day on which all the Philistines will be devastated, and Tyre and Sidon will be destroyed, with all the rest of their helpers. For the Lord has depopulated the Philistines, the remnant of the island of Cappadocia.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Baldness has arrived over Gaza. Ashkelon has been silenced, along with the remnant of their valley. And how long will you continue to be cut down?</p>

<p><a id="c47_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O sharp sword of the Lord, how long will you be without rest? Enter your sheath; be refreshed and silenced.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But how can it find rest, when the Lord has ordered it against Ashkelon and against its maritime regions, and when a task has been appointed to it there?"</p>

</body>
</html>