<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, the king of Judah, this word came from the Lord, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Thus says the Lord: Stand in the atrium of the house of the Lord, and speak to all the cities of Judah, from which they come to adore in the house of the Lord, all the words that I have commanded you to speak to them. Do not choose to subtract any word.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> So may they hear and be converted, each one from his evil way. And then I may repent of the evil that I plan to do to them because of the wickedness of their pursuits.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And you shall say to them: Thus says the Lord: If you will not listen to me, so that you walk in my law, which I have given to you,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> so that you listen to the words of my servants, the prophets, whom I have sent to you, who arise while it is still night, and though they give guidance, you do not listen,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> then I will make this house like Shiloh, and I will make this city into a curse for all the nations of the earth."</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the priests, and the prophets, and all the people heard Jeremiah speaking these words in the house of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when Jeremiah had completed speaking all that the Lord had instructed him to speak to all the people, then the priests, and the prophets, and all the people apprehended him, saying: "You shall be put to death."</p>

<p><a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> "Why has he prophesied in the name of the Lord, saying: 'Like Shiloh, so shall this house be,' and, 'This city shall be made desolate, even without an inhabitant?' " And all the people were gathered together against Jeremiah in the house of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the leaders of Judah heard these words. And they ascended from the house of the king to the house of the Lord, and they sat at the entrance by the new gate of the house of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the priests and the prophets spoke to the leaders and to all the people, saying: "A judgment of death is for this man. For he has prophesied against this city, just as you have heard with your own ears."</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jeremiah spoke to all the leaders and to the entire people, saying: "The Lord has sent me to prophesy, about this house and about this city, all the words that you have heard.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now, therefore, make your ways and your intentions good, and heed the voice of the Lord your God. And then the Lord will repent of the evil that he has spoken against you.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But as for me, behold, I am in your hands. Do to me what is good and right in your eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Yet truly, know and understand this: if you kill me, you will be bringing innocent blood against yourselves, and against this city and its inhabitants. For in truth, the Lord sent me to you, so as to speak all these words in your hearing."</p>

<p><a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And then the leaders and all the people said to the priests and to the prophets: "There is no judgment of death against this man. For he has spoken to us in the name of the Lord our God."</p>

<p><a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then some of the elders of the land rose up. And they spoke to the entire assembly of the people, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> "Micah from Moresheth was a prophet in the days of Hezekiah, the king of Judah, and he spoke to all the people of Judah, saying: 'Thus says the Lord of hosts: Zion will be ploughed like a field. And Jerusalem will be a pile of stones. And the mountain of the house will be like the forests of high places.'</p>

<p><a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Did the king of Judah, Hezekiah, with all of Judah, condemn him to death? Did they not fear the Lord, and petition the face of the Lord? And so the Lord repented of the evil that he had spoken against them. Therefore, we are committing a great evil against our own souls.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Likewise, there was a man prophesying in the name of the Lord: Uriah, the son of Shemaiah, of Kiriath-jearim. And he prophesied against this city and against this land, in accord with all the words of Jeremiah.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And king Jehoiakim, with all his warriors and leaders, heard these words. And so the king sought to put him to death. And Uriah heard, and was afraid, and fled, and he entered into Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And king Jehoiakim sent men into Egypt: Elnathan, the son of Achbor, and the men who went with him into Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they led Uriah out of Egypt. And they brought him to king Jehoiakim, and he struck him down with the sword. And he cast his dead body among the graves of the common people."</p>

<p><a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But the hand of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, was with Jeremiah, so that he would not be delivered into the hands of the people, and so that they would not put him to death.</p>

</body>
</html>