<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it happened in that year, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah, the king of Judah, in the fourth year, in the fifth month, that Hananiah, the son of Azur, the prophet from Gibeon, spoke to me, in the house of the Lord, in the sight of the priests and all the people, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> There are still two years of days, and then I will cause to be carried back to this place all the vessels of the house of the Lord that Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, took from this place and carried away to Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will return to this place: Jeconiah, the son of Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, and all those taken captive from Judah, who were brought into Babylon, says the Lord. For I will crush the yoke of the king of Babylon."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jeremiah the prophet spoke to Hananiah the prophet, before the eyes of the priests and before the eyes of all the people who were standing in the house of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jeremiah the prophet said: "Amen, may the Lord accomplish this; may the Lord act upon your words, which you have prophesied, so that the vessels may be carried back to the house of the Lord, and so that all those taken captive may return from Babylon to this place.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yet truly, listen to this word, which I am speaking to your ears and to the ears of all the people.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The prophets, who were before me and before you, from the beginning, have prophesied over many lands and over great kingdoms, about war, and about affliction, and about famine.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The prophet who has predicted peace, if his word will occur, then the prophet will be known as one whom the Lord has sent in truth."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Hananiah the prophet took the chain from the neck of Jeremiah the prophet, and he broke it.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Hananiah spoke in the sight of all the people, saying: "Thus says the Lord: So shall I break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, after two years of days, from the neck of all the people."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jeremiah the prophet went his own way. And after Hananiah the prophet had broken the chain from the neck of Jeremiah the prophet, the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> "Go, and you shall say to Hananiah: Thus says the Lord: You have broken chains of wood, and so you will make for them chains of iron.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For thus says the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel: I have placed a yoke of iron on the neck of all these nations, so that they may serve Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon. And they shall serve him. Moreover, I have given to him even the beasts of the earth."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Jeremiah the prophet said to Hananiah the prophet: "Listen, Hananiah! The Lord has not sent you, and so you have caused this people to trust in a lie.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For this reason, thus says the Lord: Behold, I will send you away from the face of the earth. This year, you shall die. For you have spoken against the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Hananiah the prophet died in that year, in the seventh month.</p>

</body>
</html>