<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Lamentations 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Lamentations 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> ALEPH. O how the gold has become dulled, the finest color has been altered, the stones of the sanctuary have been scattered at the head of every street.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> BETH. The famous sons of Zion, and those clothed with the foremost gold: how they have become like earthen vessels, the work of the hands of a potter.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> GHIMEL. Yet even savages expose their breast and give milk to their young. But the daughter of my people is cruel, like the ostrich in the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> DALETH. The tongue of the infant adheres to his palate out of thirst. The little ones have asked for bread, and there was no one to break it for them.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> HE. Those who were fed indulgently have passed away in the roads. Those who were nourished with saffron have welcomed filth.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> VAU. And the iniquity of the daughter of my people has been made greater than the sin of Sodom, which was overthrown in a moment, and yet hands did not take captives in her.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> ZAIN. Her Nazirites were whiter than snow, shinier than milk, more ruddy than ancient ivory, more beautiful than sapphire.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> HETH. Their face has been blacked more than coals, and they are not recognized in the streets. Their skin has adhered to their bones; it dried out and became like wood.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> TETH. It was better for those slain by the sword, than for those put to death by famine. For these waste away, being consumed by the sterility of the land.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> JOD. The hands of pitiable women have boiled their sons. They became their food in the grief of the daughter of my people.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> CAPH. The Lord has completed his fury; he has poured out the wrath of his indignation. And he has kindled a fire in Zion, and it has devoured its foundations.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> LAMED. The kings of the earth, and all the inhabitants of the world, did not believe that the adversary and the enemy would enter through the gates of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> MEM. It is because of the sins of her prophets, and the iniquities of her priests, who have shed the blood of the just in her midst.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> NUN. They have wandered in the streets like the blind; they have been defiled with blood. And when they were not able, they held their garments.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> SAMECH. "Go back, you polluted ones!" they cried out to them. "Go back, go away, do not touch!" Of course, they argued, and being removed, they said among the Gentiles, "He will no longer dwell among them."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> PHE. The face of the Lord has divided them. He will no longer respect them. They were not ashamed before the faces of the priests, nor did they take pity on the elderly.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> AIN. While we were still standing, our eyes failed, expecting help for us in vain, when we looked attentively toward a nation that was not able to save.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> SADE. Our footsteps have slipped on the paths of our own streets. Our end draws near. Our days have been completed, for our end has arrived.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> COPH. Our persecutors have been swifter than the eagles of the sky. They have been pursuing us above the mountains; they have lain in wait for us in the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> RES. The spirit of our mouth, Christ the Lord, has been captured by our sins; to him, we said, "In your shadow, we will live among the Gentiles."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> SIN. Be glad and rejoice, O daughter of Edom, who dwells in the Land of Uz. The cup will also pass to you; you will be inebriated as well as naked.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> THAU. Your iniquity has been completed, O daughter of Zion. He will no longer send you away to captivity. He has visited your iniquity, O daughter of Edom; he has uncovered your sins.</p>

</body>
</html>