<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Lamentations 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Lamentations 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Remember, O Lord, what has befallen us. Consider and look kindly upon our disgrace.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Our inheritance has been turned over to foreigners; our houses to outsiders.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> We have become orphans without a father; our mothers are like widows.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> We paid for our drinking water. We acquired our wood for a price.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> We were dragged by our necks. Being weary, no rest was given to us.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> We have given our hand to Egypt and to the Assyrians, so that we may be satisfied with bread.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Our fathers have sinned, and are not. And we have carried their iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Servants have become rulers over us. There was no one to redeem us from their hand.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> We obtained our bread at the risk of our lives, before the face of the sword, in the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Our skin was burned, as if by an oven, before the face of the tempest of the famine.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They humiliated the women in Zion and the virgins in the cities of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The leaders were suspended by their hand. They were not ashamed before the faces of the elders.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They have sexually abused the adolescents, and the children were corrupted in the wood.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The elders have ceased from the gates, the youths from the choir of the psalms.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The gladness of our heart has failed, our singing has been turned into mourning.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The crown has fallen from our head. Woe to us, for we have sinned.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because of this, our heart became gloomy; for this reason, our eyes have been darkened:</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> because of mount Zion, because it was ruined. Foxes have wandered upon it.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But you, O Lord, shall remain for eternity, your throne from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Why would you forget us forever? Why would you forsake us for a long time?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Convert us, O Lord, to you, and we shall be converted. Renew our days, as from the beginning.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But you have utterly rejected us; you are vehemently angry against us.</p>

</body>
</html>