<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Lamentations 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Lamentations 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> ALEPH. I am a man watching my own poverty by the rod of his indignation.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> ALEPH. He has driven me and led me into darkness, and not into light.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> ALEPH. Against me only, he has turned and turned again his hand, all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> BETH. My skin and my flesh, he has made old; he has crushed my bones.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> BETH. He has built all around me, and he has encircled me with gall and hardship.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> BETH. He has gathered me into darkness, like those who are forever dead.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> GHIMEL. He has built against me all around, so that I may not depart. He has increased the burden of my confinement.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> GHIMEL. Yet even when I cry out and beg, he excludes my prayer.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> GHIMEL. He has enclosed my ways with square stones; he has subverted my paths.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> DALETH. He has become to me like a bear lying in ambush, like a lion in hiding.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> DALETH. He has subverted my paths, and he has broken me. He has placed me in desolation.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> DALETH. He has bent his bow, and he has positioned me like a target for his arrows.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> HE. He has shot into my kidneys the daughters of his quiver.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> HE. I have become a derision to all my people, their song throughout the day.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> HE. He has filled me with bitterness; he has inebriated me with wormwood.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> VAU. And he has broken each one of my teeth; he has fed me with ashes.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> VAU. And my soul has been driven away from peace; I have forgotten what is good.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> VAU. And I said, "My end and my hope from the Lord has perished."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> ZAIN. Remember my poverty and my transgression, the wormwood and the gall.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> ZAIN. I will call to mind the past, and my soul shall languish within me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> ZAIN. These recollections are in my heart; therefore, I shall hope.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> HETH. By the mercies of the Lord, we are not consumed. For his compassion has not passed away.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> HETH. I know it at first light; great is your faithfulness.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> HETH. "The Lord is my portion," said my soul. Because of this, I will wait for him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> TETH. The Lord is good to those who hope in him, to the soul that seeks him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> TETH. It is good to stand ready in silence for the salvation of God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> TETH. It is good for a man, when he has carried the yoke from his youth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> JOD. He shall sit solitary and silent. For he has lifted it upon himself.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> JOD. He shall place his mouth in the dirt, if perhaps there may be hope.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> JOD. He shall give his cheek to those who strike him; he shall be saturated with reproaches.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> CAPH. For the Lord will not rebuke forever.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> CAPH. For, if he has cast down, he will also have compassion, according to the multitude of his mercies.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> CAPH. For he has not humiliated from his heart, nor has he thrown aside the sons of men,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> LAMED. as if to crush under his feet all the prisoners of the land,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> LAMED. as if to turn aside the judgment of a man in the sight of the presence of the Most High,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> LAMED. as if to pervert a man in his judgment: the Lord does not do this.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> MEM. Who is this, who said to do what the Lord did not command?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> MEM. Does not both misfortune and good proceed from the mouth of the Most High?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> MEM. Why has a living man murmured, a man suffering for his sins?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> NUN. Let us examine our ways, and seek out, and return to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> NUN. Let us lift up our hearts, with our hands, toward the Lord in the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> NUN. We have acted sinfully, and we have provoked to wrath. About this, you are relentless.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> SAMECH. You have covered us in your fury, and you have struck us. You have killed, and have not spared.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> SAMECH. You have set a cloud opposite you, lest our prayer pass through.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> SAMECH. In the midst of the peoples, you have uprooted me and cast me out.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> PHE. All our enemies have opened their mouths over us.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> PHE. Prediction has become for us a dread, and a snare, and a grief.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> PHE. My eye has brought forth streams of water at the contrition of the daughter of my people.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> AIN. My eye has been afflicted, and it has not been quieted, because there would be no rest</p>

<p><a id="c3_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> AIN. until the Lord looked down and saw from the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> AIN. My eye has exhausted my soul over every one of the daughters of my city.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> SADE. My enemies have chased me, and they have caught me like a bird, without reason.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> SADE. My life has fallen into a pit, and they have placed a stone over me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> SADE. The waters have flooded over my head. I said, "I am lost."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> COPH. I called upon your name, O Lord, from the furthest pit.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> COPH. You have heard my voice. Do not turn away your ear from my sobbing and my cries.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> COPH. You drew near in the daytime, when I called upon you. You said, "Fear not."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> RES. You have judged, O Lord, the case of my soul. You are the Redeemer of my life.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> RES. You have seen, O Lord, their iniquity against me. Judge my case.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> RES. You have seen all their fury, every one of their thoughts is against me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> SIN. You have heard their reproach, O Lord, all their thoughts are against me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> SIN. The lips of those who rise up against me, and their meditations, are against me all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> SIN. Watch their sitting down and their rising up: I am their psalm.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> THAU. You shall pay a recompense to them, O Lord, according to the works of their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> THAU. You shall give them a heavy shield of the heart: your hardship.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> THAU. You shall pursue them in fury, and you shall destroy them under the heavens, O Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>