<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Son of man, two women were daughters of one mother,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and they fornicated in Egypt; they committed fornication in their youth. In that place, their breasts were conquered; the breasts of their adolescence were subdued.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now their names were Oholah, the elder, and Oholibah, her younger sister. And I held them, and they bore sons and daughters. As for their names: Oholah is Samaria, and Oholibah is Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And then, Oholah committed fornication against me, and she acted madly with her lovers, with the Assyrians who approached her,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> who were clothed with hyacinth: rulers and magistrates, passionate youths and all of the horsemen, mounted on horses.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And she distributed her fornications to those chosen men, all of them sons of the Assyrians. And she defiled herself with the uncleanness of all those whom she madly desired.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Moreover, she also did not abandon her fornications, which she had done in Egypt. For they also slept with her in her youth, and they bruised the breasts of her virginity, and they poured out their fornication upon her.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Because of this, I have delivered her into the hands of her lovers, into the hands of the sons of the Assur, whom she has lustfully desired.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They uncovered her shame; they took away her sons and daughters; and they slew her with the sword. And they became infamous women. And they carried out judgments in her.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when her sister, Oholibah, had seen this, she was even more mad with lust than the other. And her fornication was beyond the fornication of her sister.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> She shamelessly offered herself to the sons of the Assyrians, to the rulers and magistrates who brought themselves to her clothed with colorful garments, to the horsemen who were carried by horses, and to the youths, all of them exceptional in appearance.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I saw that she had been defiled, and that they both took the same path.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And she increased her fornications. And when she had seen men depicted on the wall, the images of the Chaldeans, expressed in colors,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> with belts wrapped around the waist, and with dyed headdresses on their heads, having seen the appearance of all the rulers, the likenesses of the sons of Babylon and of the land of the Chaldeans in which they were born,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> she became mad for them with the desire of her eyes, and she sent messengers to them in Chaldea.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when the sons of Babylon had gone to her, to the bed of breasts, they defiled her with their fornications, and she was polluted by them, and her soul was gorged by them.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Also, her fornications were uncovered, and her shame was revealed. And my soul withdrew from her, as my soul had withdrawn from her sister.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For she multiplied her fornications, remembering the days of her youth, in which she fornicated in the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And she was mad with lust after lying with them, whose flesh is like the flesh of donkeys, and whose flow is like the flow of horses.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And you have revisited the crimes of your youth, when your breasts were conquered in Egypt, and the breasts of your adolescence were subdued.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Because of this, Oholibah, thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will raise up against you all of your lovers, with whom your soul has been gorged. And I will gather them together against you all around:</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> the sons of Babylon, and all the Chaldeans, the nobles, the sovereigns and princes, all the sons of the Assyrians, youths of exceptional form, all the rulers and magistrates, the leaders among leaders, and the renowned riders of horses.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they will overwhelm you, well-equipped with chariot and wheel, a multitude of peoples. They will be armed against you on every side with armor and shield and helmet. And I will give judgment to their eyes, and they will judge you with their judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And against you, I will set my zeal, which they will execute upon you with fury. They will cut off your nose and your ears. And what remains will fall by the sword. They will seize your sons and your daughters, and your youngest will be devoured by fire.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they will strip you of your vestments, and take away the articles of your glory.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And I will cause your wickedness to cease from you, and your fornication to cease from the land of Egypt. Neither shall you lift up your eyes toward them, and you shall no longer remember Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will deliver you into the hands of those whom you have hated, into the hands by which your soul has been gorged.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they will act toward you with hatred, and they will take away all your labors, and they will send you away naked and filled with disgrace. And the shame of your fornication will be revealed: your crimes and your fornications.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They have done these things to you, because you have fornicated after the Gentiles, among whom you were defiled by their idols.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> You have walked in the way of your sister, and so I will give her chalice into your hand.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Thus says the Lord God: You will drink the chalice of your sister, deep and wide. You will be held in derision and in ridicule, to a very great extent.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> You will be filled with inebriation and sorrow, by the chalice of grief and sadness, by the chalice of your sister Samaria.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And you will drink it, and you will empty it, even to the dregs. And you will consume even its particles. And you will wound your own breasts. For I have spoken, says the Lord God.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Because of this, thus says the Lord God: Since you have forgotten me, and you have cast me behind your body, so also will you bear your wickedness and your fornications."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And the Lord spoke to me, saying: "Son of man, should you not judge Oholah and Oholibah, and announce to them their crimes?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For they are adulteresses, and blood is in their hands, and they have fornicated with their idols. Moreover, they have offered even their children, whom they bore for me, to them to be devoured.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But they have done even this to me: They have defiled my sanctuary on the same day, and they have profaned my Sabbaths.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And when they immolated their children to their idols, they also entered my sanctuary on the same day, so that they defiled it. They have done these things, even in the midst of my house.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> They sent for men who were coming from far away, to whom they had sent a messenger. And so, behold, they arrived, those for whom you washed yourself, and smeared cosmetics around your eyes, and were adorned with feminine ornaments.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> You sat upon a very beautiful bed, and a table was adorned before you, on which you placed my incense and my ointment.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And the voice of a multitude was exulting within her. And concerning certain men, who were being led out of a multitude of persons, and who were arriving from the desert, they placed bracelets on their hands and beautiful crowns on their heads.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And I said about her, as she was being worn away by her adulteries, 'Even now, she continues in her fornication!'</p>

<p><a id="c23_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And they entered to her, as if to a kept woman. So did they enter to Oholah and Oholibah, nefarious women.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> But there are just men; these shall judge them with the judgment of adulteresses and with the judgment of those who shed blood. For they are adulteresses, and blood is on their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> For thus says the Lord God: Lead upon them a multitude, and hand them over to tumult and to pillaging.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And may they be stoned with the stones of the peoples, and may they be pierced with their own swords. They will put to death their sons and daughters, and they will burn their houses with fire.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And I will take away wickedness from the land. And all women shall learn not to act according to their wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And they will set your own crimes upon you, and you will bear the sins of your idols. And you shall know that I am the Lord God."</p>

</body>
</html>