<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it happened that, in the seventh year, in the fifth month, on the tenth of the month, men from the elders of Israel arrived, so that they might inquire of the Lord, and they sat before me.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> "Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel, and you shall say to them: Thus says the Lord God: Have you arrived in order to inquire of me? As I live, I will not answer you, says the Lord God.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If you judge them, if you judge, O son of man, reveal to them the abominations of their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And you shall say to them: Thus says the Lord God: In the day when I chose Israel, and I lifted up my hand on behalf of the stock of the house of Jacob, and I appeared to them in the land of Egypt, and I lifted up my hand on their behalf, saying, 'I am the Lord your God,'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> in that day, I lifted up my hand for their sake, so that I would lead them away from the land of Egypt, into a land which I had provided for them, flowing with milk and honey, which was singular among all lands.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I said to them: 'Let each one cast away the offenses of his eyes, and do not choose to defile yourselves with the idols of Egypt. I am the Lord your God.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But they provoked me, and they were not willing to listen to me. Each one of them did not cast away the abominations of his eyes, nor did they leave behind the idols of Egypt. And so, I said that I would pour out my indignation upon them, and fulfill my wrath against them, in the midst of the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But I acted for the sake of my name, so that it would not be violated in the sight of the Gentiles, in the midst of whom they were, and among whom I appeared to them, so that I might lead them away from the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, I cast them out of the land of Egypt, and I led them away into the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I gave them my precepts, and I revealed to them my judgments, which, if a man does them, he shall live by them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Moreover, I also gave to them my Sabbaths, so that these would be a sign between me and them, and so that they would know that I am the Lord, who sanctifies them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But the house of Israel provoked me in the desert. They did not walk in my precepts, and they cast aside my judgments, which, if a man does them, he shall live by them. And they grievously violated my Sabbaths. Therefore, I said that I would pour out my fury upon them in the desert, and that I would consume them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I acted for the sake of my name, lest it be violated before the Gentiles, from whom I cast them out, in their sight.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And so I lifted up my hand over them in the desert, so as not to lead them into the land that I had given to them, flowing with milk and honey, the foremost of all lands.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For they cast aside my judgments, and they did not walk in my precepts, and they violated my Sabbaths. For their heart went after idols.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yet my eye was lenient concerning them, so that I did not utterly destroy them, nor did I consume them in the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then I said to their sons in the wilderness: 'Do not choose to advance by the precepts of your fathers, nor should you observe their judgments. And do not be defiled by their idols.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I am the Lord your God. Walk in my precepts, and observe my judgments, and accomplish them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And sanctify my Sabbaths, so that these may be a sign between me and you, and so that you may know that I am the Lord your God.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But their sons provoked me. They did not walk in my precepts. And they did not observe my judgments, so as to do them; for if a man does them, he shall live by them. And they violated my Sabbaths. And so, I threatened that I would pour out my fury upon them, and that I would fulfill my wrath among them in the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But I turned aside my hand, and I acted for the sake of my name, so that it would not be violated before the Gentiles, from whom I cast them out, before their eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Again, I lifted up my hand against them, in the wilderness, so that I would disperse them among the nations, and scatter them among the lands.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For they had not accomplished my judgments, and they had rejected my precepts, and they had violated my Sabbaths. And their eyes had been after the idols of their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore, I also gave them precepts that were not good, and judgments by which they shall not live.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And I defiled them by their own gifts, when they offered everything that opened the womb, because of their offenses. And they shall know that I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For this reason, son of man, speak to the house of Israel, and you shall say to them: Thus says the Lord God. Yet also in this did your fathers blaspheme me, after they had spurned and despised me,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> though I had led them into the land, about which I lifted up my hand, so that I might give it to them: They saw every lofty hill and every leafy tree, and there they immolated their victims, and there they presented the provocation of their oblations, and there they stationed their sweet fragrances, and poured out their libations.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And I said to them, 'What is exalted about the place to which you go?' And yet its name is called 'Exalted,' even to this day.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Because of this, say to the house of Israel: Thus says the Lord God: Certainly, you are defiled by the way of your fathers, and you have fornicated after their stumbling blocks.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And you are being defiled by all of your idols, even to this day, by the oblation of your gifts, when you lead your sons through the fire. And should I respond to you, O house of Israel? As I live, says the Lord God, I will not answer you.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the plan of your mind will not occur, saying: 'We will be like the Gentiles, and like the families of the earth, so that we worship what is wood and stone.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> As I live, says the Lord God, I will reign over you with a strong hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with fury poured forth.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And I will lead you away from the peoples. And I will gather you from the lands into which you were dispersed. I will reign over you with a powerful hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with fury poured out.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And I will lead you into the desert of the peoples, and there I will enter into judgment with you, face to face.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Just as I contended in judgment against your fathers in the desert of the land of Egypt, so also will I enter into judgment with you, says the Lord God.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And I will subject you to my scepter, and I will lead you into the bonds of the covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And I will select, from among you, the transgressors and the impious. And I will lead them away from the land of their sojourn, but they shall not enter into the land of Israel. And you shall know that I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And as for you, house of Israel: thus says the Lord God: Walk, each one of you, after your idols and serve them. But if in this also you will not listen to me, and you continue to defile my holy name with your gifts and with your idols,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> on my holy mountain, on the exalted mountain of Israel, says the Lord God, there all the house of Israel shall serve me; all of them, I say, in the land in which they shall please me, and there I will require your first-fruits, and the foremost of your tithes, with all your sanctifications.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> I will receive from you a fragrance of sweetness, when I will have led you away from the peoples, and gathered you from the lands into which you were dispersed. And I will be sanctified in you before the eyes of the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And you shall know that I am the Lord, when I will have led you into the land of Israel, into the land about which I lifted up my hand, so that I would give it to your fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And there you shall remember your ways and all your wickedness, by which you have been defiled. And you will be displeased with yourselves in your own sight, over all your evil deeds which you did.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And you shall know that I am the Lord, when I will have acted well toward you for the sake of my name, and not according to your evil ways, nor according to your very great wickedness, O house of Israel, says the Lord God."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c20_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> "Son of man, set your face against the way of the south, and pour in drops toward Africa, and prophesy against the forest of the field of the meridian.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And you shall say to the meridian forest: Listen to the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will kindle a fire in you, and I will burn up within you every green tree and every dry tree. The flame of the kindling will not be extinguished. And every face will be burned up within it, from the south, even to the north.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And all flesh will see that I, the Lord, have kindled it, and that it will not be extinguished."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And I said: "Alas, alas, alas, O Lord God! They are saying about me: 'Does this man not speak except through parables?' "</p>

</body>
</html>