<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 39</h2>

<p><a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "But as for you, son of man, prophesy against Gog, and you shall say: Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am above you, O Gog, prince of the head of Meshech and Tubal.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I will turn you around, and I will lead you away, and I will cause you to rise up from the parts of the north. And I will bring you over the mountains of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I will strike your bow in your left hand, and I will cast away your arrows from your right hand.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You will fall upon the mountains of Israel, you and all your companies, and your peoples who are with you. I have given you over to the wild animals, to the birds, and to every flying thing, and to the beasts of the earth, in order to be devoured.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You will fall upon the face of the field. For I have spoken, says the Lord God.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I will send a fire upon Magog, and upon those who are living confidently in the islands. And they shall know that I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I will make known my holy name in the midst of my people, Israel, and my holy name will no longer be defiled. And the Gentiles shall know that I am the Lord, the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behold, it approaches, and it is done, says the Lord God. This is the day, about which I have spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the inhabitants from the cities of Israel will go forth, and they will kindle and burn the weapons, the shields and the spears, the bows and the arrows, and the staff and the lance. And they will kindle fires with them for seven years.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they will not carry wood from the countryside, and they will not cut from the forests. For they will kindle the weapons with fire. And they will prey upon those who had preyed upon them, and they will plunder those who had plundered them, says the Lord God.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And this shall be in that day: I will give Gog a renown place as a sepulcher in Israel, the valley of the wayfarers to the east of the sea, which will cause astonishment in those who pass by. And in that place, they will bury Gog and all his multitude, and it will be called the valley of the multitude of Gog.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the house of Israel will bury them, so that they may cleanse the land, for seven months</p>

<p><a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then all the people of the earth will bury them, and this shall be for them a renown day, on which I have been glorified, says the Lord God.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they shall appoint men to continually examine the earth, so that they may seek out and bury those who have remained on the surface of the earth, so that they may cleanse it. Then, after seven months, they will begin to seek.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they will go around, traveling the earth. And when they will have seen the bone of a man, they will station a marker beside it, until the undertakers may bury it in the valley of the multitude of Gog.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the name of the city will be: the Multitude. And they shall cleanse the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> As for you, then, son of man, thus says the Lord God: Say to every flying thing, and to all the birds, and to all the beasts of the field: Assemble! Hurry! Rush together from every side to my victim, which I have immolated for you, a great victim upon the mountains of Israel, so that you may consume flesh, and drink blood!</p>

<p><a id="c39_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> You shall eat the flesh of the powerful, and you shall drink the blood of the princes of the earth, of rams and lambs and he-goats and bulls, and of fattened birds and all that is fat.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And you shall consume the fat unto satiation, and you shall drink the blood unto inebriation, from the victim that I will immolate for you.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And you shall be satiated, upon my table, from horses and powerful horsemen, and from all the men of war, says the Lord God.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And I will set my glory among the Gentiles. And all the nations shall see my judgment, which I have accomplished, and my hand, which I have laid upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the house of Israel shall know that I am the Lord, their God, from that day and thereafter.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the Gentiles shall know that the house of Israel was taken captive because of their own iniquity, because they abandoned me. And so I concealed my face from them, and I delivered them into the hands of their enemies, and they all fell by the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I have acted toward them in accord with their uncleanness and wickedness, and so I concealed my face from them.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Because of this, thus says the Lord God: Now I will lead back the captivity of Jacob, and I will take pity upon the entire house of Israel. And I will act with zeal on behalf of my holy name.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they shall bear their shame and all their transgression, by which they betrayed me, though they were living in their own land confidently, dreading no one.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And I will lead them back from among the peoples, and I will gather them together from the lands of their enemies, and I will be sanctified in them, in the sight of the many nations.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they shall know that I am the Lord, their God, because I carried them away to the nations, and I gathered them upon their own land, and I did not abandon any of them there.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And I will no longer conceal my face from them, for I have poured out my Spirit upon the entire house of Israel, says the Lord God."</p>

</body>
</html>