<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it happened that, in the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, on the fifth of the month, when I was in the midst of the captives beside the river Chebar, the heavens were opened, and I saw the visions of God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> On the fifth of the month, the same is the fifth year of the transmigration of king Joachin,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> the word of the Lord came to Ezekiel, a priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans, next to the river Chebar. And the hand of the Lord was over him there.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I saw, and behold, a whirlwind arrived from the north. And a great cloud, wrapped in fire and brightness, was all around it. And from its midst, that is, from the midst of the fire, there was something with the appearance of amber.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And in its midst, there was the likeness of four living creatures. And this was their appearance: the likeness of a man was in them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Each one had four faces, and each one had four wings.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Their feet were straight feet, and the sole of their foot was like the sole of the foot of a calf, and they sparkled with the appearance of glowing brass.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they had the hands of a man under their wings on the four sides. And they had faces with the wings on the four sides.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And their wings were joined to one another. They did not turn as they went. Instead, each one advanced before his face.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But as for the likeness of their face, there was the face of a man, and the face of a lion on the right of each of the four, then the face of an ox on the left of each of the four, and the face of an eagle above each of the four.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Their faces and their wings were extended above: two wings of each one were joined together, and two covered their bodies.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And each one of them advanced before his face. Wherever the impetus of the spirit was to go, there they went. And they did not turn as they advanced.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And as for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like that of burning coals of fire, and like the appearance of lamps. This was the vision dashing in the midst of the living creatures, a bright fire, with lightning going forth from the fire.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the living creatures went and returned like flashes of lightning.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And as I beheld the living creatures, there appeared above the earth, next to the living creatures, one wheel having four faces.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the appearance of the wheels and their work was like the appearance of the sea. And each of the four were similar to one another. And their appearance and work was like a wheel in the center of a wheel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Going forth, they went by means of their four parts. And they did not turn as they went.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Also, the size and height and appearance of the wheels was dreadful. And the entire body was full of eyes all around each of the four.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And when the living creatures advanced, the wheels advanced together with them. And when the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels, too, were lifted up at the same time.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Wherever the spirit went, as the spirit was going forth to that place, the wheels, too, were lifted up together, so as to follow them. For the spirit of life was in the wheels.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> When going forth, they went forth, and when standing still, they stood still. And when they were lifted up from the earth, the wheels, too, were lifted up together, so as to follow them. For the spirit of life was in the wheels.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And above the heads of the living creatures was the likeness of a firmament: similar to crystal, but dreadful to behold, and extending over their heads from above.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And their wings were straight under the firmament, one toward the other. One of them was covered by two wings on his body, and the other was covered similarly.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And I heard the sound of their wings, like the sound of many waters, like the sound of the sublime God. When they walked, it was like the sound of a multitude, like the sound of an army. And when they stood still, their wings were let down.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For when a voice came from above the firmament, which was over their heads, they stood still, and they put down their wings.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And above the firmament, which was suspended over their heads, there was the likeness of a throne, with the appearance of the sapphire stone. And over the likeness of the throne, there was a likeness with the appearance of a man above it.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And I saw something with the appearance of amber, with the likeness of fire within it and all around it. And from his waist and upward, and from his waist downward, I saw something with the appearance of fire shining all around.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> There was the appearance of the rainbow, as when it is in a cloud on a rainy day. This was the appearance of the splendor on every side.</p>

</body>
</html>