<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Son of man, set your face against the sons of Ammon, and you shall prophesy about them.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And you shall say to the sons of Ammon: Listen to the word of the Lord God: Thus says the Lord God: Because you have said, 'Well, well!' over my sanctuary, when it was profaned, and over the land of Israel, when it was desolated, and over the house of Judah, when they were led into captivity,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> therefore, I will deliver you to the sons of the East, as an inheritance. And they will arrange their fences within you, and they will place their tents within you. They will eat your crops, and they will drink your milk.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I will make Rabbah into the habitation of camels, and the sons of Ammon into the resting place of cattle. And you shall know that I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thus says the Lord God: Because you have clapped your hands and stomped your foot, and have rejoiced with all your heart against the land of Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> therefore, behold, I will extend my hand over you, and I will deliver you as a spoil of the Gentiles. And I will destroy you from the peoples, and I will perish you from the lands, and I will crush you. And you shall know that I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thus says the Lord God: Because Moab and Seir have said, 'Behold, the house of Judah is like all the Gentiles!'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> therefore, behold, I will open the shoulder of Moab from the cities, from his cities, I say, and from his borders, the famous cities of the land of Beth-Jesimoth, and Baal-meon, and Kiriathaim,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> with the sons of Ammon, to the sons of the East, and I will give it to them as an inheritance, so that there may no longer be a remembrance of the sons of Ammon among the Gentiles.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I will execute judgments in Moab. And they shall know that I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thus says the Lord God: Because Idumea has taken vengeance, so as to vindicate herself against the sons of Judah, and has sinned grievously, and has sought revenge against them,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> therefore, thus says the Lord God: I will extend my hand over Idumea, and I will take from it both man and beast, and I will make it desolate from the south. And those who are in Dedan will fall by the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will issue my vengeance upon Idumea, by the hand of my people, Israel. And they shall act in Idumea in accord with my wrath and my fury. And they shall know my vengeance, says the Lord God.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thus says the Lord God: Because the Philistines have taken vengeance, and have revenged themselves with all their soul, destroying, and fulfilling ancient hostilities,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> because of this, thus says the Lord God: Behold, I will extend my hand over the Philistines, and I will destroy those who destroy, and I will perish the remnant of the maritime regions.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I will execute great vengeance against them, reproving them in fury. And they shall know that I am the Lord, when I will send my vengeance upon them."</p>

</body>
</html>