<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 46</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 46</h2>

<p><a id="c46_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus says the Lord God: "The gate of the inner court which looks toward the east shall be closed for the six days on which work is done. Then, on the Sabbath day, it shall be opened. But also on the day of the new moon, it shall be opened.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the prince shall enter from outside, by the way of the vestibule of the gate, and he shall stand at the threshold of the gate. And the priests shall offer his holocaust and his peace offerings. And he shall adore upon the threshold of the gate, and then depart. But the gate shall not be closed until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the people of the land shall adore at the entrance of the same gate, on the Sabbaths and on the new moons, in the sight of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now this holocaust, which the prince shall offer to the Lord on the Sabbath day, shall be six immaculate lambs, and one immaculate ram.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The sacrifice shall be one ephah for each ram. But for the lambs, the sacrifice shall be whatever his hand shall give. And there shall be one hin of oil for each ephah.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then, on the day of the new moon, he shall offer one immaculate calf from the herd. Both the six lambs and the rams shall be immaculate.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he shall offer the sacrifice of one ephah for each calf, and also one ephah for each ram. But for the lambs, it shall be just as his hand will find. And there shall be one hin of oil for each ephah.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when the prince will enter, let him enter by the way of the vestibule of the gate, and let him go out by the same way.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when the people of the land will enter in the sight of the Lord on the solemnities, whoever enters by the north gate so that he may adore, shall depart by the way of the south gate. And whoever enters by the way of the south gate shall depart by the way of the north gate. He shall not return by way of the gate through which he entered. Instead, he shall depart from the direction opposite to it.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But the prince in their midst shall enter when they enter, and he shall depart when they depart.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And during the feasts and the solemnities, there shall be the sacrifice of one ephah for each calf, and one ephah for each ram. But for the lambs, the sacrifice shall be just as his hand will find. And there shall be one hin of oil for each ephah.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But when the prince will offer a voluntary holocaust or a voluntary peace offering to the Lord, the gate which looks toward the east shall be opened to him. And he shall offer his holocaust and his peace offerings, just as is usually done on the Sabbath day. And he shall depart, and the gate shall be closed after he has gone out.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And daily he shall offer, as a holocaust to the Lord, an immaculate lamb of the same age. He shall offer it always in the morning.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he shall offer as a sacrifice with it, morning after morning, one sixth part of an ephah, and one third part of a hin of oil, to be mixed with the fine flour, as a sacrifice to the Lord, by a continual and everlasting ordinance.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He shall offer the lamb and the sacrifice and the oil, morning after morning, as an everlasting holocaust.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thus says the Lord God: If the prince grants a gift to any of his sons, the inheritance of it will go to his sons; they shall possess it as an inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But if he grants a legacy from his inheritance to one of his servants, it shall be his only until the year of remission, and then it shall be returned to the prince. For his inheritance shall go to his sons.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the prince shall not take from the inheritance of the people by force, nor from their possession. Instead, from his own possession, he shall give an inheritance to his sons, so that my people will not be scattered, each one from his possession."</p>

<p><a id="c46_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he led me in by the entrance which was at the side of the gate, into the storerooms of the sanctuary for the priests, which looked toward the north. And there was a place there which verged toward the west.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he said to me: "This is the place where the priests will cook the offering for sin and the offering for trespasses. Here, they shall cook the sacrifice, so that they need not carry it to the outer court, and so that the people may be sanctified."</p>

<p><a id="c46_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he led me away to the outer court, and he led me around by the four corners of the court. And behold, there was a little atrium at the corner of the court; a little atrium was at each corner of the court.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> At the four corners of the court, little atriums were positioned, forty cubits in length, and thirty in width; each of the four were of the same measure.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And there was a wall all around, encircling the four little atriums. And kitchens had been constructed under the porticos on all sides.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he said to me: "This is the house of the kitchens, in which the ministers of the house of the Lord will cook the victims of the people."</p>

</body>
</html>