<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Son of man, set your face against mount Seir, and you shall prophesy about it, and you shall say to it:</p>

<p><a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am against you, mount Seir, and I will extend my hand over you, and I will make you desolate and deserted.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will tear down your cities, and you will be deserted. And you shall know that I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For you have been a continual adversary, and you have enclosed the sons of Israel, by the hands of the sword, in the time of their affliction, in the time of extreme iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Because of this, as I live, says the Lord God, I will hand you over to blood, and blood will pursue you. Even though you have hated blood, blood will pursue you.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I will make mount Seir desolate and deserted. And I will take away from it the one who departs and the one who returns.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I will fill up its mountains with its slain. In your hills, and in your valleys, as well as in your torrents, the slain will fall by the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will hand you over to everlasting desolations, and your cities will not be inhabited. And you shall know that I am the Lord God.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For you have said, 'Two nations and two lands will be mine, and I will possess them as an inheritance,' though the Lord was in that place.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because of this, as I live, says the Lord God, I will act in accord with your own wrath, and in accord with your own zeal, by which you have acted with hatred toward them. And I will be made known by them, when I will have judged you.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And you shall know that I, the Lord, have heard all your disgraces, which you have spoken about the mountains of Israel, saying: 'They are deserted. They have been given to us to devour.'</p>

<p><a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And you rose up against me with your mouth, and you disparaged against me with your words. I have heard.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thus says the Lord God: When the whole earth will rejoice, I will reduce you to solitude.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Just as you have rejoiced over the inheritance of the house of Israel, when it was laid waste, so will I act toward you. You will be laid waste, O mount Seir, with all of Idumea. And they shall know that I am the Lord."</p>

</body>
</html>