<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> This was the vision of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. And I saw, and I fell on my face, and I heard the voice of someone speaking. And he said to me: "Son of man, stand on your feet, and I will speak with you."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And after this was spoken to me, the Spirit entered into me, and he set me on my feet. And I heard him speaking to me,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and saying: "Son of man, I am sending you to the sons of Israel, to an apostate nation, which has withdrawn from me. They and their fathers have betrayed my covenant, even to this day.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And those to whom I am sending you are sons with a hard face and an unyielding heart. And you shall say to them: 'Thus says the Lord God.'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Perhaps it may be that they will hear, and perhaps they may be quieted. For they are a provoking house. And they shall know that there has been a prophet in their midst.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But as for you, son of man, you should not fear them, and you should not dread their words. For you are among unbelievers and subversives, and you are living with scorpions. You should not fear their words, and you should not dread their faces. For they are a provoking house.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, you shall speak my words to them, so that perhaps they may hear and be quieted. For they are provoking.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But as for you, son of man, listen to all that I say to you. And do not choose to be provoking, as that house is a provoker. Open your mouth, and eat whatever I give to you."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I looked, and behold: a hand was put forth toward me; there was a scroll rolled up in it. And he spread it out before me, and there was writing on the inside and on the outside. And there were written in it lamentations, and verses, and woes.</p>

</body>
</html>