<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "And as for you, son of man, obtain for yourself a sharp knife for shaving hair, and you shall take it and draw it across your head and across your beard. And you shall obtain for yourself a balance for weighing, and you shall divide the hair.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A third part you shall burn with fire in the midst of the city, according to the completion of the days of the siege. And you shall take a third part, and you shall cut it with the knife all around. Yet truly, the other third, you shall scatter to the wind, for I will unsheathe the sword after them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And you shall take from there a small number. And you shall bind them in the end of your cloak.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And again, you shall take from them, and you shall throw them into the midst of the fire, and you shall burn them with fire. And from it, there shall go forth a fire to the entire house of Israel."</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus says the Lord God: "This is Jerusalem. I have placed her in the midst of the Gentiles and of the lands all around her.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And she has despised my judgments, so as to be more impious than the Gentiles, and my precepts, more so than the lands that are all around her. For they have cast aside my judgments, and they have not walked in my precepts."</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For this reason, thus says the Lord God: "Since you have surpassed the Gentiles who are all around you, and have not walked in my precepts, and have not accomplished my judgments, and have not even acted in accord with the judgments of the Gentiles who are all around you:</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> therefore, thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am against you, and I myself will accomplish judgments in your midst, in the sight of the Gentiles.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I will do in you what I have not done before, and the likes of which I will not do again, because of all your abominations.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, the fathers shall consume the sons in your midst, and the sons shall consume their fathers. And I will execute judgments in you, and I will winnow your entire remnant in every wind.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, as I myself live says the Lord God, because you have violated my sanctuary with all your offenses and with all your abominations, I also will break into pieces, and my eye will not be lenient, and I will not take pity.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> One third part of you will die by pestilence or be consumed by famine in your midst. And one third part of you will fall by the sword all around you. Yet truly, one third part of you I will scatter to every wind, and I will unsheathe the sword after them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I will fulfill my fury, and I will cause my indignation to rest upon them, and I will be consoled. And they shall know that I, the Lord, have spoken in my zeal, when I will have fulfilled my indignation in them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will make you desolate, and a disgrace among the Gentiles, who are all around you, in the sight of all who pass by.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And you shall be a disgrace and a blasphemy, an example and an astonishment, among the Gentiles, who are all around you, when I will have executed judgments in you, in fury and in indignation and with rebukes of wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I, the Lord, have spoken. At that time, I will send among them the most grievous arrows of famine, which shall bring death, and which I will send so that I may destroy you. And I will gather a famine over you, and I will crush the staff of bread among you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I will send among you famine and very harmful beasts, even unto utter ruin. And pestilence and blood shall pass through you. And I will bring the sword over you. I, the Lord, have spoken."</p>

</body>
</html>