<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it happened that, in the eleventh year, in the third month, on the first of the month, the word of the Lord came to me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Son of man, speak to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and to his people: To whom can you be compared in your greatness?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Behold, Assur is like the cedar of Lebanon, with fair branches, and full of leaves, and of high stature, and his summit has been elevated above the thick branches.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The waters have nourished him. The abyss has exalted him. Its rivers have flowed around his roots, and it has sent forth its streams to all the trees of the regions.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Because of this, his height was exalted above all the trees of the regions, and his groves were multiplied, and his own branches were elevated, because of the many waters.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when he had extended his shadow, all the birds of the air made their nests in his branches, and all the beasts of the forest conceived their young under his foliage, and an assembly of the many peoples lived under his shadow.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he was most beautiful in his greatness and in the expansion of his groves. For his root was near many waters.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The cedars in the Paradise of God were not higher than he was. The spruce trees were not equal to his summit, and the plane trees were not equal to his fullness. No tree in the Paradise of God was similar to him or to his beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For I made him beautiful, and dense with many branches. And all the trees of delight, which were in the Paradise of God, were jealous of him.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because of this, thus says the Lord God: Since he was sublime in height, and he made his summit green and dense, and his heart was exalted because of his height,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I have delivered him into the hands of the most powerful one among the Gentiles, so that he will deal with him. I have cast him out, in accord with his impiety.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And foreigners, and the most cruel among the nations, will cut him down. And they will cast him on the mountains. And his branches will fall in every steep valley, and his grove will be broken apart on every cliff of the earth. And all the peoples of the earth will withdraw from his shadow, and abandon him.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> All the birds of the air lived upon his ruins, and all the beasts of the countryside were among his branches.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For this reason, none of the trees among the waters will exalt themselves because of their height, nor will they place their summits above the thick branches and foliage, nor will any of those that are irrigated stand out because of their height. For they have all been delivered unto death, to the lowest part of the earth, into the midst of the sons of men, those who descend into the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thus says the Lord God: In the day when he descended into hell, I led in grieving. I covered him with the abyss. And I held back its rivers, and I restrained the many waters. Lebanon was saddened over him, and all the trees of the field were struck together.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I shook the Gentiles with the sound of his ruin, when I led him down to hell, with those who were descending into the pit. And all the trees of delights, the finest and best in Lebanon, all that were irrigated with waters, were consoled in the deepest parts of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For they, too, will descend with him into hell, to those who have been slain by the sword. And the arm of each one will reside under his shadow, in the midst of the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To whom can you be compared, O famous and sublime one, among the trees of pleasure? Behold, you have been brought down, with the trees of pleasure, to the lowest part of the earth. You will sleep in the midst of the uncircumcised, with those who have been slain by the sword. This is Pharaoh, and all his multitude, says the Lord God."</p>

</body>
</html>