<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I saw, and behold, in the firmament that was over the heads of the cherubim, there appeared above them something like the sapphire stone, with the sight of the likeness of a throne.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he spoke to the man who was clothed with linen, and he said: "Enter, between the wheels that are under the cherubim, and fill your hand with the coals of fire that are between the cherubim, and pour them upon the city." And he entered, in my sight.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now the cherubim were standing before the right side of the house, when the man entered. And a cloud filled the inner court.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the glory of the Lord was lifted up, from above the cherubim, to the threshold of the house. And the house was filled with the cloud. And the court was filled with the splendor of the glory of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the sound of the wings of the cherubim was heard even in the outer court, like the voice of Almighty God speaking.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when he had instructed the man who was clothed with linen, saying, "Take fire from the midst of the wheels that are between the cherubim," he entered and stood next to the wheel.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And one cherub extended his hand, from the midst of the cherubim, to the fire that was between the cherubim. And he took and gave it into the hands of the one who was clothed with linen, and he accepted it and went forth.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there appeared amid the cherubim the likeness of the hand of a man, under their wings.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I saw, and behold, there were four wheels beside the cherubim. One wheel was next to one cherub, and another wheel was next to another cherub. And the appearance of the wheels was like the sight of the chrysolite stone.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And in their appearance, each one of the four were similar, as if a wheel were in the midst of a wheel.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when they went, they advanced in four parts. And they did not turn as they went. Instead, to the place to which they were inclined to go at first, the rest also followed, and they did not turn back.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And their entire body, with their necks and their hands and their wings and the circles, were full of eyes all around the four wheels.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And in my hearing, he called these wheels: "constantly changing."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now each one had four faces. One face was the face of a cherub, and the second face was the face of a man, and in the third was the face of a lion, and in the fourth was the face of an eagle.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the cherubim were lifted up. This is the living creature, which I had seen beside the river Chebar.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when the cherubim advanced, the wheels also went beside them. And when the cherubim lifted up their wings in order to be raised up from the earth, the wheels did not remain behind, but they also were beside them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> When they were standing, these stood still. And when they were lifted up, these were lifted up. For the spirit of life was in them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the glory of the Lord went forth from the threshold of the temple, and stood above the cherubim.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the cherubim, lifting up their wings, were raised up from the earth in my sight. And as they went away, the wheels also followed. And it stood at the entrance to the east gate of the house of the Lord. And the glory of the God of Israel was over them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This is the living creature, which I saw under the God of Israel beside the river Chebar. And I understood that they were cherubim.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Each one had four faces, and each one had four wings. And the likeness of the hand of a man was under their wings.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And, concerning the appearance of their faces, these were the same faces that I had seen beside the river Chebar, and the gaze and force of each one of them was to go before his face.</p>

</body>
</html>