<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Spirit lifted me up, and he brought me to the east gate of the house of the Lord, which looks toward the rising of the sun. And behold, at the entrance to the gate were twenty-five men. And I saw, in their midst, Jaazaniah, the son of Azzur, and Pelatiah, the son of Benaiah, leaders of the people.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said to me: "Son of man, these are men who devise iniquity. And they offer a wicked counsel in this city,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> saying: 'Was it so long ago that houses were being built? This city is a cooking pot, and we are the meat.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore, prophesy against them, prophesy, O son of man."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Spirit of the Lord fell upon me, and he said to me: "Speak: Thus says the Lord: So have you spoken, O house of Israel. And I know the thoughts of your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You have killed very many in this city, and you have filled its streets with the slain.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Because of this, thus says the Lord God: Your slain, whom you have placed in its midst, these are the meat, and this city is the cooking pot. And I will draw you out of its midst.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You have dread the sword, and so I will lead the sword over you, says the Lord God.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I will cast you out of its midst, and I will give you over to the hand of the enemies, and I will execute judgments among you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You will fall by the sword. I will judge you within the borders of Israel. And you shall know that I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> This city will not be a cooking pot for you, and you will not be like meat in its midst. I will judge you within the borders of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And you shall know that I am the Lord. For you have not walked in my precepts, and you have not accomplished my judgments. Instead, you have acted in accord with the judgments of the Gentiles, who are all around you."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it happened that, when I prophesied, Pelatiah, the son of Benaiah, died. And I fell upon my face, and I cried out with a loud voice, and I said: "Alas, alas, alas, O Lord God! Will you cause the consummation of the remnant of Israel?"</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> "Son of man, your brothers, the men among your close relatives, your brothers and the entire house of Israel, are all among those to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said: 'Withdraw far from the Lord; the earth has been given to us as a possession.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Because of this, thus says the Lord God: Since I have caused them to be far away, among the Gentiles, and since I have dispersed them among the lands, I will be a little sanctuary for them within the lands to which they have gone.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because of this, say to them: Thus says the Lord God: I will gather you from among the peoples, and I will unite you, from the lands into which you were dispersed, and I will give the soil of Israel to you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they shall go to that place, and they shall remove all the offenses and all its abominations from that place.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I will give them one heart. And I will distribute a new spirit to their interior. And I will take away the heart of stone from their body. And I will give them a heart of flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> So may they may walk in my precepts, and observe my judgments, and accomplish them. And so may they be my people, and I will be their God.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But as for those whose heart walks after their offenses and abominations, I will set their own way upon their head, says the Lord God."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the cherubim lifted up their wings, and the wheels with them. And the glory of the God of Israel was above them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the glory of the Lord ascended from the midst of the city and stood above the mountain, which is to the east of the city.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the Spirit lifted me up, and he brought me into Chaldea, to those of the transmigration, in a vision, in the Spirit of God. And the vision that I had seen was raised up, away from me.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I spoke, to those of the transmigration, all the words of the Lord that he had revealed to me.</p>

</body>
</html>