<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Son of man, what can be made from the stalk of a vine, compared to all the plants of the woods that are among the trees of the forests?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Can any wood be taken from it, so that it may be made into a work, or formed into a peg so as to hang some kind of vessel upon it?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold, it is used in the fire as fuel. The fire consumes both its ends; and its middle is reduced to ashes. So how can it be useful for any work?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Even when it was whole, it was unsuitable for a work. How much more so, when fire has devoured it and burned it up, will nothing of it be useful?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, thus says the Lord God: Like the stalk of the vine among the trees of the forests, which I have given to be devoured by fire, so will I deliver the inhabitants of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I will set my face against them. They will go away from fire, and yet fire will consume them. And you shall know that I am the Lord, when I will have set my face against them,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and when I will have made their land impassable and desolate. For they have stood forth as transgressors, says the Lord God."</p>

</body>
</html>