<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Son of man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel, and you shall prophesy against them,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and you shall say: O mountains of Israel, listen to the word of the Lord God! Thus says the Lord God to the mountains and hills and cliffs and valleys: Behold, I will lead over you the sword. And I will destroy your exalted places.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will demolish your altars. And your graven images will be broken apart. And I will throw down your slain before your idols.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I will lay the dead bodies of the sons of Israel before the face of your idols. And I will scatter your bones around your altars.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In all of your habitations, the cities will be made desolate, and the exalted places will be torn down and scattered. And your altars will be broken and destroyed. And your idols will cease to exist. And your shrines will be crushed. And your works will be wiped away.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the slain will fall in your midst. And you shall know that I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I will leave among you those who will escape the sword among the Gentiles, when I will have dispersed you upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And your liberated shall remember me among the nations to which they were led away as captives. For I have crushed their heart, which fornicated and withdrew from me, and their eyes, which fornicated after their idols. And they will be displeased with themselves over the evils that they have done by all their abominations.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they shall know that I, the Lord, have not spoken in vain, that I would do this evil to them."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thus says the Lord God: "Strike with your hand, and stomp with your foot, and say: 'Alas, to all the abominations of the evils of the house of Israel!' For they will fall by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Whoever is far away will die of pestilence. But whoever is near will fall by the sword. And whoever remains and is besieged will die by famine. And I will fulfill my indignation among them.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And you shall know that I am the Lord, when your slain will be in the midst of your idols, all around your altars, on every exalted hill, and on the summits of all the mountains, and under every dense tree, and under every leafy oak: the places where they burned sweet-smelling incense to all their idols.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will extend my hand over them. And I will make the earth desolate and destitute: from the desert of Riblah to all their dwelling places. And they shall know that I am the Lord."</p>

</body>
</html>