<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Son of man, say to the leader of Tyre: Thus says the Lord God: Because your heart has been exalted, and you have said, 'I am God, and I sit in the chair of God, in the heart of the sea,' though you are a man, and not God, and because you have presented your heart as if it were the heart of God:</p>

<p><a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Behold, you are wiser than Daniel; no secret is concealed from you.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> By your wisdom and prudence, you have made yourself strong, and you have acquired gold and silver for your storehouses.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By the multitude of your wisdom, and by your business dealings, you have multiplied strength for yourself. And your heart has been exalted by your strength.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, thus says the Lord God: Because your heart has been exalted as if it were the heart of God,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for this reason, behold, I will lead over you foreigners, the most robust among the Gentiles. And they will bare their swords over the beauty of your wisdom, and they will defile your beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They will destroy you and pull you down. And you will die the death of those slain in the heart of the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> So then, will you speak, in the presence of those who are destroying you, before the hand of those who are killing you, saying, 'I am God,' though you are a man, and not God?</p>

<p><a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You will die the death of the uncircumcised at the hand of foreigners. For I have spoken, says the Lord God."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the word of the Lord came to me, saying: "Son of man, take up a lamentation over the king of Tyre,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and you shall say to him: Thus says the Lord God: You were the seal of similitudes, full of wisdom and perfect in beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You were with the delights of the Paradise of God. Every precious stone was your covering: sardius, topaz, and jasper, chrysolite, and onyx, and beryl, sapphire, and garnet, and emerald. The work of your beauty was of gold, and your fissures were ready in the day when you were formed.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You were a cherub, stretched out and protecting, and I stationed you on the holy mountain of God. You have walked in the midst of stones containing fire.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You were perfect in your ways, from the day of your formation, until iniquity was found in you.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> By the multitude of your business dealings, your interior was filled with iniquity, and you sinned. And I cast you away from the mountain of God, and I perished you, O protecting cherub, from the midst of the stones containing fire.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And your heart was exalted by your beauty; you have destroyed your own wisdom by your beauty. I have cast you to the ground. I have presented you before the face of kings, so that they may examine you.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> You have defiled your sanctuaries, by the multitude of your iniquities and by the iniquity of your business dealings. Therefore, I will produce a fire from your midst, which will consume you, and I will make you into ashes upon the earth, in the sight of all who are watching you.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> All who gaze upon you among the Gentiles will be stupefied over you. You were made out of nothing, and you shall not be, forever."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> "Son of man, set your face against Sidon, and you shall prophesy about it.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And you shall say: Thus says the Lord God: Behold, I am against you, Sidon, and I will be glorified in your midst. And they shall know that I am the Lord, when I will have executed judgments in her, and when I will have been sanctified in her.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I will send a pestilence upon her, and there will be blood in her streets. And they will fall, slain by the sword, on every side in her midst. And they shall know that I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the house of Israel will no longer be a stumbling block of bitterness, nor a thorn bringing pain everywhere around them, to those who turn against them. And they shall know that I am the Lord God."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Thus says the Lord God: "When I will have gathered together the house of Israel, from the peoples among whom they have been dispersed, I shall be sanctified in them in the sight of the Gentiles. And they shall live in their own land, which I gave to my servant Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they shall live within it securely. And they shall build houses and plant vineyards. And they shall live in confidence, when I will have executed judgments upon all those who turn against them on every side. And they shall know that I am the Lord their God."</p>

</body>
</html>