<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Daniel 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Daniel 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the third year of Cyrus, king of the Persians, a message was revealed to Daniel, called Belteshazzar, and a true word, and great strength. And he understood the message, for understanding is needed in a vision.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In those days, I, Daniel, mourned for three weeks of days.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I ate no desirable bread, and neither meat, nor wine, entered my mouth, neither was I anointed with ointment, until the three weeks of days were completed.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But on the twenty-fourth day of the first month, I was next to the great river, which is the Tigris.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I lifted up my eyes, and I saw, and behold, one man clothed in linen, and his waist was wrapped with the finest gold,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and his body was like the golden stone, and his face had the appearance of lightning, and his eyes that of a burning lamp, and his arms and all that is downward all the way to the feet had the appearance of glowing brass, and his speaking voice was like the voice of a multitude.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But I, Daniel, alone saw the vision, for the men who were with me did not see it, but an exceedingly great terror rushed over them, and they fled into hiding.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I, having been left alone, saw this great vision, and there remained no strength in me, moreover, my appearance was altered, and I languished, not having any strength.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I heard the voice of his words, and when I heard, I lay down in confusion on my face, and my face was close to the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And behold, a hand touched me, and raised me onto my knees and the knuckles of my hands.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said to me, "Daniel, man of longing, understand the words that I speak to you, and stand yourself upright, for I am now sent to you." And when he had said these words to me, I stood trembling.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he said to me, "Do not be afraid, Daniel, because from the first day that you set your heart to understand, by afflicting yourself in the sight of your God, your words have been heeded, and I have arrived because of your words.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But the leader of the kingdom of the Persians resisted me for twenty-one days, and behold, Michael, one of the primary leaders, came to help me, and I remained there next to the king of the Persians.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I have come to teach you what will happen to your people in the latter days, because the vision is for a long time from now."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And while he was speaking words to me in this way, I cast my face down to the ground and was silent.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And behold, something in the likeness of a son of man touched my lips. Then, opening my mouth, I spoke and said to him who stood before me, "My lord, at the sight of you, my limbs became weak and no strength has remained in me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And so, how can the servant of my lord speak with my lord? For no strength remains in me; and even my breathing is hindered."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore, he who looked like a man, touched me again and strengthened me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said, "Fear not, O man of longing. May peace be with you. Take courage and be strong." And when he spoke to me, I recovered, and I said, "Speak, my lord, for you have strengthened me."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he said, "Do you not know why I have come to you? And next I will return, to fight against the leader of the Persians. When I was leaving, there appeared the leader of the Greeks arriving.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But, in truth, I announce to you what is expressed in the scripture of truth. And no one is my helper in all these things, except Michael your leader."</p>

</body>
</html>