<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Daniel 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Daniel 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I, Nebuchadnezzar, was content in my house and prospering in my palace.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I saw a dream that terrified me, and my thoughts on my bed and the visions in my head disturbed me.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And so a decree was established by me, that all of the wise men of Babylon should be brought in before me, and that they should reveal to me the answer to the dream.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then the seers, the astrologers, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers entered, and I explained about the dream in their presence, but they did not reveal its answer to me.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And then their colleague came in before me, Daniel, (whose name is Belteshazzar according to the name of my god,) who has the spirit of the holy gods within his very self, and I told the dream directly to him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Belteshazzar, leader of the seers, since I know that you have in you the spirit of the holy gods, and that no mystery is unreachable to you, explain to me the visions of my dreams, which I saw, and the solution to them.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> This was the vision of my head on my bed. I looked, and behold, a tree in the middle of the earth, and its height was exceedingly great.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The tree was great and strong, and its height reached up to heaven. It could be seen all the way to the ends of the entire earth.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Its leaves were very beautiful, and its fruit was very abundant, and in it was food for the whole world. Under it, animals and beasts were dwelling, and in its branches, the birds of the sky were sheltered, and from it, all flesh was fed.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I saw in the vision of my head upon my blanket, and behold, a watcher and a holy one descended from heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He cried out loudly, and he said this: "Cut down the tree and prune its branches; shake off its leaves and scatter its fruits; let flee the beasts, which are under it, and the birds from its branches.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Nevertheless, leave the stump of its roots in the earth, and let it be bound with a band of iron and brass among the plants, which are close by, and let it be touched by the dew of heaven, and let its place be with the wild animals among the plants of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let his heart be changed from being human, and let the heart of a wild animal be given to him, and let seven periods of time pass over him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> This is the decree from the judgment of the watchers, and the decision and proclamation of the holy ones, until the living shall know that the Supreme One is ruler in the kingdom of men, and that he will give it to whomever he wills, and he will appoint the lowest man over it."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I, king Nebuchadnezzar, saw this dream. And so you, Belteshazzar, must quickly explain to me the interpretation because all the wise men of my kingdom are not able to declare the meaning of it to me. But you are able because the spirit of the holy gods is in you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, began silently to think within himself for about one hour, and his thoughts troubled him. But the king responded, saying, "Belteshazzar, do not let the dream and its interpretation disturb you." Belteshazzar answered and said, "My lord, the dream is for those who hate you, and its interpretation may be for your enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The tree that you saw was lofty and strong; its height reached toward heaven, and it could be seen throughout the whole world.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And its branches were very beautiful, and its fruit very abundant, and in it was food for all. Under it, dwelt the beasts of the field, and in its branches, the birds of the air stayed.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> It is you, O king, who has been greatly esteemed, and you have grown strong. And you have increased your power, and it reaches towards heaven, and your rule is to the ends of the whole earth.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yet the king also saw a watcher and a holy one descend from heaven and say: 'Cut down the tree and scatter it; however, leave the stump of its roots in the earth, and let it be bound with iron and brass, among the surrounding plants, and let it be sprinkled with the dew of heaven, and let his feeding be with the wild beasts, until seven periods of time pass over him.'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> This is the interpretation of the judgment of the Most High, which has reached my lord, the king.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They will expel you from among men, and your dwelling will be with the beasts and the wild animals, and you will eat hay like an ox, and you will be drenched with the dew of heaven. Likewise, seven periods of time will pass over you, until you know that the Supreme One rules over the kingdom of men, and he gives it to whomever he wills.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But, since he commanded that the stump of its roots, that is, of the tree, should be left behind, your kingdom will be left for you, after you have realized that power is from divinity.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Because of this, O king, let my counsel be acceptable to you. And redeem your sins with alms, and your iniquities with mercy towards the poor. Perhaps he will forgive your offenses."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> All these things came upon king Nebuchadnezzar.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> After the end of twelve months, he was taking a walk in the palace of Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the king spoke out loud, saying, "Isn't this the great Babylon, which I have built, as the home of the kingdom, by the strength of my power and in the glory of my excellence?"</p>

<p><a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And while the words were still in the king's mouth, a voice rushed down from heaven, "To you, O king Nebuchadnezzar, it is said: 'Your kingdom will be taken away from you,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and they will expel you from among men, and your dwelling will be with the beasts and the wild animals. You will eat hay like an ox, and seven times will pass over you, until you know that the Supreme One rules in the kingdom of men, and he gives it to whomever he wills.' "</p>

<p><a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The same hour, the sentence was fulfilled upon Nebuchadnezzar, and he was driven away from among men, and he ate hay like an ox, and his body was drenched with the dew of heaven, until his hair increased like the feathers of eagles, and his nails like those of birds.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore, at the end of these days, I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up my eyes to heaven, and my mind was restored to me. And I blessed the Most High, and I praised and glorified him who lives forever. For his power is an everlasting power, and his kingdom is from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing before him. For he acts according to his own will, with the inhabitants of the earth just as with the holy inhabitants of heaven. And there is no one who can resist his hand, or say to him, "Why have you done this?"</p>

<p><a id="c4_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> At the same time, my mind returned to me, and I arrived at the honor and glory of my kingdom. And my appearance was given back to me. And my nobles and my magistrates needed me. And I was restored to my kingdom, and even greater majesty was added to me.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Therefore I, Nebuchadnezzar, now praise, and magnify, and glorify the King of heaven, because all his works and the judgments of his way are true, and those who go forth in arrogance, he is able to bring low.</p>

</body>
</html>