<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Daniel 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Daniel 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "And so, from the first year of Darius the Mede, I stood firm, so that he might be reinforced and strengthened.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And now I will announce to you the truth. Behold, up to a certain point, three kings will stand in Persia, and the fourth will be exceedingly enriched in power above them all. And when he has grown strong by his resources, he will stir up all against the kingdom of Greece.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But there will rise up a strong king, and he will rule with great power, and he will do what he pleases.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when he has been firmly established, his kingdom will be shattered and will be divided towards the four winds of the heaven, but not to his posterity, nor according to his power with which he ruled. For his kingdom will be torn to pieces, even for the outsiders who have been expelled from these.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the king of the South will be reinforced, yet one of his leaders will prevail over him, and he will rule with riches, for great is his domain.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And after the end of years, they will form a federation, and the daughter of the king of the South will come to the king of the North to make friendship, but she will not obtain the strength of arms, neither will her offspring stand firm, and she will be handed over, along with those who brought her, her young men, and those who comforted her in these times.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And a transplant from the germination of her roots will stand up, and he will come with an army, and will enter into the province of the king of the North, and he will abuse them, and will hold it fast.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And, in addition, he will carry away captive into Egypt their gods, and their graven images, and likewise their precious vessels of gold and silver. He will prevail against the king of the North.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the king of the South will enter into the kingdom, and will return to his own land.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But his sons will be challenged, and they will assemble a multitude of very many forces. And he will arrive rushing and overflowing. And he will be turned back, and he will be enraged, and he will join the battle in his redness.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the king of the South, having being challenged, will go forth and will fight against the king of the North, and he will prepare an exceedingly great multitude, and a multitude will be given into his hand.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he will seize a multitude, and his heart will be exalted, and he will cast down many thousands, but he will not prevail.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For the king of the North will change strategy and will prepare a multitude much greater than before, and at the end of times and years, he will rush forward with a great army and exceedingly great resources.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And in those times, many will rise up against the king of the South. And likewise the sons of the deceivers among your people will extol themselves, so as to fulfill the vision, and they will collapse.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the king of the North will arrive and will transport siege works, and he will seize the most fortified cities. And the arms of the South will not withstand him, and his elect will rise up to resist, but the strength will not.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when he arrives, he will do just as he pleases, and there will be none who stand against his face. And he will stand in the illustrious land, and it will be consumed by his hand.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he will set his face to strive to hold his entire kingdom, and he will make fair conditions with him. And he will give him a daughter among women, so as to overthrow it. But she will not stand, neither will she be for him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he will turn his face towards the islands, and he will seize many. And he will cause the leader of his reproach to cease, and his reproach will be turned around for him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he will turn his face to the empire of his own land, and he will strike, and will overthrow, but he will not succeed.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And there will stand up in his place one who is most worthless and unworthy of kingly honor. And in a short time, he will be worn out, but not in fury, nor in battle.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And there will stand up in his place the despicable one, and he will not be assigned the honor of a king. And he will arrive in secret, and he will obtain the kingdom by deceitfulness.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the arms of the fighting will be assaulted before his face and will be shattered, and, in addition, the leader of the federation.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And, after making friends, he will trick him, and he will go up and will overcome with a small people.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he will enter into rich and resourceful cities, and he will do what his fathers never did, nor his fathers' fathers. He will scatter their spoils, and their prey, and their riches, and will form a plan against the most steadfast, and this until a time.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And his strength and his heart will be enraged against the king of the South with a great army. And the king of the South will be provoked into going to war by having many allies and exceedingly good circumstances, and yet these will not stand, for they will form plans against him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And those who eat bread with him will crush him, and his army will be suppressed, and very many will die, having been executed.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the heart of two kings will be similar, to do harm, and they will speak lies at one table, but they will not succeed, because as yet the end is for another time.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he will return to his land with many resources. And his heart will be against the holy testament, and he will act, and he will return to his own land.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> At the appointed time, he will return, and he will approach the South, but the latter time will not be like the former.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the Greek warships and the Romans will come upon him, and he will be pierced, and will retreat, and will have scorn against the testament of the sanctuary, and he will act. And he will return and will consult their adversaries, who have forsaken the covenant of the sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And arms will take his side, and they will pollute the sanctuary of the strength, and they will take away the continual sacrifice and will replace it with the abomination of desolation.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the impious within the testament will imitate deceitfully, but the people, knowing their God, will persevere and will act.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the teachers among the people will teach many, but they will be ruined by the sword, and by fire, and by captivity, and by assaults for many days.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And when they have fallen, they will be supported with a little help, but many will apply to them deceitfully.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And some of the learned will be ruined, that they may be kindled and chosen and purified, up to the predetermined time, because there will be still another time.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And the king will act according to his will, and he will be lifted up and will be extolled against every god. And he will speak great things against the God of gods, and he will control, until the passion is completed. Once accomplished, the limit is reached with certainty.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And he will give no thought to the God of his fathers, and he will be in the desire of women, and he will not attend to any gods, because he will rise up against all things.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But he will do homage to the god Maozim in his place, and, a god whom his fathers did not know, he will worship with gold, and silver, and precious stones, and costly things.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And he will act to reinforce Maozim with an alien god, of whom he has become aware, and he will increase their glory, and will give them power over many, and he will distribute land for free.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And, at the predetermined time, the king of the South will fight against him, and the king of the North will come against him like a tempest, with chariots, and with horsemen, and with a great fleet, and he will enter into the lands, and will crush and pass through.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And he will enter into the glorious land, and many will fall. But only these will be saved from his hand: Edom, and Moab, and the first part of the sons of Ammon.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And he will cast his hand upon the lands, and the land of Egypt will not escape.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he will rule over the treasure chests of gold, and silver, and all the precious things of Egypt, and likewise he will pass through Libya and Ethiopia.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And rumors from the East and from the North will trouble him. And he will arrive with a great multitude to destroy and to execute many.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And he will fasten his tabernacle, Apadno, between the seas, upon an illustrious and holy mountain, and he will come even to its summit, and no one will help him."</p>

</body>
</html>