<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Daniel 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Daniel 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "But at that time Michael will rise up, the great leader, who stands up for the sons of your people. And a time will come, such as has not been from the time that nations began, even until that time. And, at that time, your people will be saved, all who will be found written in the book.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth will awaken: some to everlasting life, and others to a reproach that they will always see.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But those who have taught will shine like the brightness of the firmament, and those who instruct many towards justice, like the stars for unending eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But you, Daniel, close the message and seal the book, until the established time. Many will pass through, and knowledge will be increased."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I, Daniel, looked, and behold, similarly two others stood up, one over here, on the bank of the river, and the other over there, on the other bank of the river.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I said to the man, who was clothed in linen, who stood over the waters of the river, "How long will it be until the end of these wonders?"</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I heard the man, who was clothed in linen, who stood over the waters of the river, when he had lifted his right hand and his left hand up to heaven, and had sworn by He who lives forever, that it would be for a time, and times, and half a time. And when the dispersion of the hand of the holy people is completed, all these things will be completed.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I heard and did not understand. And I said, "My lord, what will be after these things?"</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said, "Go, Daniel, for the words are closed and sealed until the predetermined time.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Many will be chosen and purified, and, as if by fire, they will be tested, and the impious will act impiously, and none of the impious will understand, yet the teachers will understand.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And from the time when the continual sacrifice will be taken away and the abomination of desolation will be set up, there will be one thousand two hundred ninety days.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed is he who waits and reaches until one thousand three hundred thirty-five days.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But you, go, until the predetermined time, and you will rest and will stand in your allotted place at the end of days.</p>

</body>
</html>