<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Ephraim feeds on wind and follows burning heat; all day long he multiplies lies and desolation. And he has entered into a pact with the Assyrians, and he has carried oil into Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore, the judgment of the Lord is with Judah and a visitation is upon Jacob. He will repay him according to his ways and according to his inventions.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In the womb, he supplanted his brother; for in his good fortune, he had been guided by an angel.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he prevailed over an angel, for he had been strengthened. He wept and petitioned him. He found him in Bethel, and there he has spoken to us.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Lord God of hosts, the Lord is his memorial.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And so, you should convert to your God. Keep mercy and judgment, and have hope in your God always.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Canaan, in his hand is a deceitful balance, he has chosen false accusations.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Ephraim has said, "Nevertheless, I have become rich; I have found an idol for myself. All of my labors will not reveal to me the iniquity that I have committed."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I, the Lord your God from the land of Egypt, nevertheless will cause you to dwell in tabernacles, just as during the days of the feast.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I have spoken through the prophets, and I have multiplied visions, and I have used parables through the hands of the prophets.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If Gilead is an idol, then they have been sacrificing cattle in Gilgal to no purpose. For even their altars are like clutter on the soil of the field.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Jacob fled into the region of Syria, and Israel served like a wife, and was served by a wife.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yet by a prophet the Lord led Israel out of Egypt, and he was served by a prophet.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Ephraim has provoked me to wrath with his bitterness, and his blood will overcome him, and his Lord will requite him for his shamefulness.</p>

</body>
</html>