<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When I was willing to heal Israel, the iniquity of Ephraim was discovered, and the malice of Samaria, for they had been manufacturing lies. And the thief steals from inside, the robber from outside.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And, so that they may not say in their hearts that I am the one who has called to mind all of their wickedness: now their own inventions have encircled them. These things have happened in my presence.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The king has rejoiced at their wickedness, and the leaders have rejoiced in their lies.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They are all adulterers; like an oven heating up before baking, the city rested a little before the leaven was mixed in, until the whole was leavened.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> On the day of our king, the leaders began to be mad with wine; he extended his hand with those who fabricate illusions.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For they have used their heart like an oven, while he laid snares for them; he slept through the night baking them, and by morning he himself was heated like a burning fire.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They have all become hot like an oven, and they have devoured their judges. All their kings have fallen. There is no one who calls to me among them.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ephraim himself has been mingled with the nations. Ephraim has become like bread, baked under ashes, that has not been turned over.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Strangers have devoured his strength, and he did not know it. And grey hairs also have spread across him, and he is ignorant of it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the pride of Israel will be brought low before his face, for they have not returned to the Lord their God, nor have they sought him in all of this.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Ephraim has become like a pigeon that has been led astray, not having a heart; for they called upon Egypt, they went to the Assyrians.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when they will set out, I will spread my net over them. I will pull them down like the birds of the sky; I will cut them down in accordance with the reports of their meetings.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Woe to them, for they have withdrawn from me. They will waste away because they have been dishonest with me. And I redeemed them, and they have spoken lies against me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they have not cried out to me in their heart, but they howled on their beds. They have obsessed about wheat and wine; they have withdrawn from me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I have educated them, and I have reinforced their arms; and they have imagined evil against me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They returned so that they might be without a yoke. They have become like a deceitful bow. Their leaders will fall by the sword because of the madness of their words. This is their derision in the land of Egypt.</p>

</body>
</html>