<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In their tribulation, they will arise early to me. Come, let us return to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For he has seized us, and he will heal us. He will strike, and he will cure us.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He will revive us after two days; on the third day he will raise us up, and we will live in his sight. We will understand, and we will continue on, so that we may know the Lord. His landing place has been prepared like the first light of morning, and he will come to us like the early and the late rains of the land.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> What am I to do with you, Ephraim? What am I to do with you, Judah? Your mercy is like the morning mist, and like the dew passing away in the morning.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Because of this, I have cut them with the prophets, I have slain them with the words of my mouth; and your opinions will depart like the light.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For I desired mercy and not sacrifice, and knowledge of God more than holocausts.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But they, like Adam, have transgressed the covenant; in this, they have been dishonest with me.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Gilead is a city that manufactures idols; it has been tripped up by family relations.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And, like those who rob with skillful words, they, by conspiring with the priests, bring a death sentence to travelers on a pilgrimage from Shechem; for they have been performing evil deeds.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I have seen horrible things in the house of Israel; the fornications of Ephraim are there. Israel has been contaminated.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But you, Judah, set a harvest for yourself, while I reverse the captivity of my people.</p>

</body>
</html>