<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> While Ephraim was speaking, a horror entered Israel, and he offended by Baal, and he died.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And now they add that they will be sinning more. And they have made themselves an image cast from their silver, just like the image of idols; but the whole thing has been made by craftsmen. These say to them, "Sacrifice men, you who adore calves."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For this reason, they will be like the morning clouds, and like the morning dew that passes away, just like the dust that is driven by a whirlwind away from the threshing floor, and like the smoke from a chimney.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But I am the Lord your God from the land of Egypt, and you will not know God apart from me, and there is no Savior except me.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I knew you in the desert, in the land of solitude.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> According to their pastures, they have been filled up and have been satisfied. And they have lifted up their heart, and they have forgotten me.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I will be to them like a lioness, like a leopard in the way of the Assyrians.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will run to meet them like a bear that has been robbed of her young, and I will split open the middle of their liver. And I will devour them there like a lion; the beast of the field will tear them apart.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Perdition is yours, Israel. Your help is only in me.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Where is your king? Now, especially, let him save you in all your cities, and from your judges, about whom you said, "Give me kings and princes."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will give you a king in my wrath, and I will take him away in my indignation.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The iniquity of Ephraim has been bound; his sin has been engulfed.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The pains of giving birth will reach him. He is an unwise son. For now he will not remain firm during the contrition of his sons.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will free them from the hand of death; from death I will redeem them. Death, I will be your death. Hell, I will be your deadly wound. Consolation is hidden from my eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For he will make a division among brothers. The Lord will bring a burning wind, rising up from the desert, and it will dry up his streams, and it will make his fountain desolate, and he will tear apart every collection of desirable useful things.</p>

</body>
</html>