<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Just as the morning passes, so has the king of Israel passed by. For Israel was a child and I loved him; and out of Egypt I called my son.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They called them, and so they departed before their face. They offered victims to the Baals, and they sacrificed to graven images.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I was like a foster father to Ephraim. I carried them in my arms. And they did not know that I healed them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will draw them with the cords of Adam, with the bands of love. And I will be to them like one who raises the yoke over their jaws. And I will reach down to him so that he may eat.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He will not return to the land of Egypt, but Assur himself will be the king over him, because they were not willing to be converted.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The sword has begun in his cities, and it will consume his elect and devour their heads.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And my people will long for my return. But a yoke will be imposed on them together, which will not be taken away.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> How will I provide for you, Ephraim; how will I protect you, Israel? How will I provide for you as for Adam; will I set you like Zeboiim? My heart has changed within me; together with my regret, it has been stirred up.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will not act on the fury of my wrath. I will not turn back to utterly destroy Ephraim. For I am God, and not man, the Divine in your midst, and I will not advance upon the city.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They will walk after the Lord; he will roar like a lion. For he himself will roar, and the sons of the sea will dread.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they will fly like a bird out of Egypt, and like a dove from the land of the Assyrians. And I will arrange them in their own houses, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Ephraim has besieged me with denials, and the house of Israel with deceit. But Judah went down as a witness before God and the holy ones of faith.</p>

</body>
</html>