<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "Say to your brothers, 'You are my people,' and to your sister, 'You have obtained mercy.'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Judge your mother, judge: for she is not my wife, and I am not her husband. Let her remove her fornications from before her face and her adulteries from between her breasts.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Otherwise, I may expose her nakedness and set her as on the day of her birth, and I may establish her as a wilderness and set her as an impassable land, and I may execute her with thirst.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will not have mercy on her sons, for they are the sons of fornications.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For their mother has been fornicating; she who conceived them has been brought to ruin. For she said, 'I will go after my lovers, who give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, my oil and my drink.'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Because of this, behold, I will fence in your way with thorns, and I will surround it with a wall, and she will not find her paths.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And she will pursue her lovers, but she will not obtain them, and she will seek them, but she will not find them, and she will say, 'I will go and return to my first husband, because it was to some extent better for me then, than it is now.'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And she did not know that I gave her grain and wine and oil, and that I increased her silver and gold, which they made into Baal.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For this reason, I will turn back, and I will take away my grain in its time and my wine in its time, and I will set free my wool and my flax, which had covered her disgrace.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And now, I will reveal her foolishness by the eyes of her lovers, and no man will rescue her from my hand.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I will cause all her joy to cease: her solemnities, her new moons, her sabbaths, and all her feast dates.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I will corrupt her vines and her fig trees, about which she said, 'These rewards, they are mine, my lovers have given them to me.' And I will place her in a narrow forest, and the beasts of the field will devour her.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I will inflict on her the days of the Baals, for whom she burned incense, and ornamented herself with earrings and necklace, and went after her lovers, and forgot about me," says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> "Because of this, behold, I will attract her, and I will lead her into the wilderness, and I will speak to her heart.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I will give to her, from the same place, her vinedressers, and the valley of Achor as a passage of hope. And she will sing there as in the days of her youth, and as in the days of her ascension from the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it will be in that day," says the Lord, "that she will call me, 'My Husband,' and she will no longer call me, 'My Baal.'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I will remove the names of the Baals from her mouth, and she will no longer remember their name.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And in that day, I will strike a deal with them, with the beasts of the field, and with the birds of the sky, and with the creatures of the earth. And I will crush the bow and the sword, and I will wipe away war from the earth. And I will let them sleep securely.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I will betroth you to me forever, and I will betroth you to me in justice and judgment, and in mercy and compassion.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And I will wed you to me in faith, and you will know that I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And this will happen in that day: I will listen closely," says the Lord. "I will hear the heavens, and they will hear the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the land will pay attention to the grain, and the wine, and the oil; and these will hear Jezreel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I will plant her for me in the land, and I will have mercy on her, though she had been called Without Mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And I will say to Not My People, 'You are my people,' and they will say, 'You are my God.' "</p>

</body>
</html>