<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joel 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joel 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Blow the trumpet in Zion, wail on my holy mountain, let all the inhabitants of the land be stirred up. For the day of the Lord is on its way; for it is near:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and whirlwinds. Like the morning reaching over the mountains, they are a numerous and strong people. Nothing like them has existed since the beginning, nor will exist after them, even in the years of generation upon generation.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Before their face is a devouring fire, and behind them is a burning flame. The land before them is like a lush garden, and behind them is a desolate desert, and there is no one who can escape them.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their appearance is like the appearance of horses, and they will rush forward like horsemen.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Like the sound of a four-horse chariot, they will leap over the tops of the mountains. Like the sound of a burning flame devouring stubble, they are as a strong people prepared for battle.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Before their face, the people will be tortured; each one's appearance will retreat, as if into a jar.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They will rush forward, as if they were strong. Like valiant warriors, they will ascend the wall. The men will advance, each one on his own way, and they will not turn aside from their path.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And each one will not hem in his brother; every one will walk in his own rough path. Moreover, they will drop through the breach and not be harmed.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They will advance into the city; they will rush through the wall. They will scale the houses; they will go in through the windows, like a thief.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Before their face, the earth has trembled, the heavens have been moved. The sun and moon have been obscured, and the stars have retracted their splendor.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Lord has bestowed his voice before the face of his army. For its military camps are very numerous; for they are strong and they carry out his word. For the day of the Lord is great and so very terrible, and who can withstand it?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now, therefore, the Lord says: "Be converted to me with your whole heart, in fasting and weeping and mourning."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And rend your hearts, and not your garments, and convert to the Lord your God. For he is gracious and merciful, patient and full of compassion, and steadfast despite ill will.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Who knows if he might convert and forgive, and bequeath a blessing after him, a sacrifice and a libation to the Lord your God?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Blow the trumpet in Zion, sanctify a fast, call an assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Gather the people, sanctify the church, unite the elders, gather together the little ones and infants at the breast. Let the bridegroom depart from his bed, and the bride from her bridal chamber.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Between the vestibule and the altar, the priests, the ministers of the Lord, will weep, and they will say: "Spare, O Lord, spare your people. And do not bequeath your inheritance into disgrace, so that the nations would rule over them. Why should they say among the peoples, 'Where is their God?' "</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The Lord has been zealous for his land, and he has spared his people.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the Lord responded, and he said to his people: "Behold, I will send you grain and wine and oil, and you will again be filled with them. And I will no longer give you disgrace among the Gentiles.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he who is from the North, I will drive far from you. And I will expel him into an impassable land, and into the desert, with his face opposite the Eastern sea, and his furthest part towards the furthest sea. And his stench will ascend, and his rottenness will ascend, because he has acted arrogantly.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Earth, do not be afraid. Exult and rejoice. For the Lord has great esteem for what he has done.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Animals of the countryside, do not be afraid. For the beauty of the wilderness has sprung forth. For the tree has borne its fruit. The fig tree and the vine have bestowed their virtue.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And you, sons of Zion, exult and rejoice in the Lord your God. For he has given you a teacher of justice, and he will make the early and the late rains descend to you, just as it was in the beginning.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the threshing floors will be filled with grain, and the presses will overflow with wine and oil.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I will repay you for the years which the locust, and the beetle, and the mildew, and the caterpillar consumed: my great strength which I sent upon you.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And you will eat with enjoyment, and you will be satisfied, and you will praise the name of the Lord your God, who has worked miracles with you, and my people will not be confounded forever.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And you will know that I am in the midst of Israel, and I am the Lord your God, and there is no other, and my people will not be confounded forever.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And after this, it will happen that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh, and your sons and your daughters will prophesy; your elders will dream dreams, and your youths will see visions.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Moreover, in those days I will pour out my spirit upon my servants and handmaids.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And I will grant wonders in the sky and on earth: blood and fire and the vapor of smoke.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The sun will be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and terrible day of the Lord shall arrive.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And it will happen that everyone who will call upon the name of the Lord will be saved. For on Mount Zion, and in Jerusalem, and in the remnant whom the Lord will call, there will be salvation, just as the Lord has said.</p>

</body>
</html>