<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joel 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joel 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of the Lord that came to Joel, the son of Pethuel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Listen to this, elders, and pay close attention, all inhabitants of the land. Did this ever happen in your days or in the days of your fathers?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Talk this over with your sons, and your sons with their sons, and their sons with another generation.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The locust has eaten what the caterpillar has left, and the beetle has eaten what the locust has left, and the mildew has eaten what the beetle has left.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Rouse yourselves, you drunkards, and weep and wail, all you who delight in drinking wine; for it has been cut off from your mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For a nation has ascended over my land: strong and without number. His teeth are like the teeth of a lion, and his molars are like that of a lion's young.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He has put my vineyard into desolation, and he has pulled off the bark of my fig tree. He has stripped it bare and cast it away; its branches have become white.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lament like a betrothed virgin, wrapped in sackcloth at the loss of the husband of her youth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Sacrifice and libation have perished from the house of the Lord; the priests who are ministers of the Lord have mourned.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The region has been depopulated, the soil has mourned. For the wheat has been devastated, the wine has been disfigured, the oil has languished.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The farmers have been confounded, the vineyard workers have wailed over the crop and the barley, because the harvest of the field has perished.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The vineyard is in ruin, and the fig tree has languished. The pomegranate tree, and the palm tree, and the fruit tree, and all the trees of the field have withered. For joy has been thrown into disorder before the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Priests, gird yourselves and lament. Ministers of the altars, wail. Enter, ministers of my God, lie in sackcloth. For sacrifice and libation have passed away from the house of your God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Sanctify a fast, call an assembly, gather the elders and all the inhabitants of the land into the house of your God. And cry out to the Lord:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> "Ah, ah, ah, the day!" For the day of the Lord is near, and it will arrive, like a devastation, before the powerful.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Has not your nourishment perished from before your eyes, joy and gladness from the house of our God?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The mules have rotted in their own manure, the barns have been demolished, the wine cellars have been destroyed, because the grain has been ruined.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Why have the animals groaned, the herds of cattle bellowed? because there is no pasture for them. Yes, and even the flocks of sheep have been lost.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> To you, O Lord, I will cry out, because fire has devoured the beauty of the wilderness, and the flame has burned all the trees of the countryside.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yes, and even the beasts of the field have gazed up at you, like the dry ground thirsting for rain, because the fountains of waters have dried up, and fire has devoured the beauty of the wilderness.</p>

</body>
</html>