<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joel 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joel 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For, behold, in those days and in that time, when I will have converted the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will gather all the Gentiles, and will lead them into the valley of Jehoshaphat. And there I will dispute with them over my people, and over Israel, my inheritance, for they have scattered them among the nations and have divided my land.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they have cast lots over my people; and the boy they have placed in the brothel, and the girl they have sold for wine, so that they might drink.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Truly, what is there between you and me, Tyre and Sidon and all the distant places of the Philistines? How will you take vengeance on me? And if you were to revenge yourselves against me, I would deliver a repayment to you, quickly and soon, upon your head.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For you have carried away my silver and gold. And my desirable and most beautiful, you have taken into your shrines.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And you, sons of Judah and sons of Jerusalem, you have sold the sons of the Greeks, so that you might drive them far from their own territory.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, I will raise them up from the place into which you have sold them, and I will turn back your retribution on your own head.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hands of the sons of Judah, and they will sell them to the Sabeans, a distant nation, for the Lord has spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Proclaim this among the Gentiles: "Sanctify a war, raise up the strong. Approach, ascend, all men of war.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Cut your ploughs into swords and your hoes into spears. Let the weak say, 'For I am strong.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Break out and advance, all nations of the world, and gather together. There the Lord will cause all your strong ones to meet death."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let them arise and ascend to the valley of Jehoshaphat. For there I will sit, so as to judge all the nations of the world.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Send forth the sickles, because the harvest has matured. Advance and descend, for the press is full, the pressing room is overflowing. For their malice has been increasing.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Nations, nations in the valley of being cut to pieces: for the day of the Lord fittingly takes place in the valley of being cut to pieces.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The sun and the moon have been darkened, and the stars have withdrawn their splendor.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the Lord will roar from Zion and utter his voice from Jerusalem. And the heavens and the earth will be moved. And the Lord will be the hope of his people and the strength of the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And you will know that I am the Lord your God, dwelling on Zion, my holy mountain. And Jerusalem will be holy, and strangers will not cross through it anymore.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it will happen, in that day, that the mountains will drip sweetness, and the hills will flow with milk. And the waters will pass through all the rivers of Judah. And a fountain will go forth from the house of the Lord, and it will irrigate the desert of thorns.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Egypt will be in desolation, and Edom will be a wilderness destroyed, because of what they have unfairly done to the sons of Judah, and because they have shed innocent blood in their land.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Judea will be inhabited forever, and Jerusalem for generation upon generation.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And I will cleanse their blood, which I had not cleansed. And the Lord will remain in Zion.</p>

</body>
</html>