<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to you who have been wealthy in Zion, and to you who have confidence in the mountain of Samaria: aristocrats, heads of the people, who advance with a retinue into the house of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Cross over to Calneh and see, and go from there into Hamath the great, and descend into Gath of the Philistines, and to the best kingdoms of these, if their limits are wider than your limits.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You have been set aside for the day of disaster, and you approach the throne of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You sleep on beds of ivory, and you are lustful on your couches. You devour lambs from the flock and calves from the midst of the herd.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You sing to the sound of stringed instruments; they consider themselves to have the musical abilities of David.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You drink wine in bowls, and you anoint with the best ointments; and they suffer nothing over the grief of Joseph.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Because of this, now they will depart at the head of those who go into captivity; and the faction of the lustful will be removed.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Lord God has sworn by his own soul, the Lord God of hosts says: I detest the arrogance of Jacob, and I hate his houses, and I will hand over the city with its inhabitants.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For if there were ten men remaining in one house, even they will die.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And his closest relative will steal him away and will burn him, so that he may carry the bones out of the house. And he will say to him that is in the inner most rooms of the house, "Now is there any left that still belongs to you?"</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he will answer, "It is finished." And he will say to him, "Be silent and do not call to mind the name of the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For behold, the Lord has commanded, and he will strike the greater house with catastrophes, and the lesser house with divisions.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Can horses gallop across rocks, or is anyone able to plough with gazelles? For you have turned judgment into bitterness and the fruit of justice into wormwood.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You rejoice in emptiness. You say, "Have we not, by our own strength, taken horns for ourselves?"</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For behold, house of Israel, I will raise up a people over you, says the Lord God of hosts, and they will crush you from the entrance of Hamath all the way to the burning of the desert.</p>

</body>
</html>