<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Listen to the word which the Lord has spoken about you, sons of Israel, concerning the whole family that I led out of the land of Egypt, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have known only you in such a way, out of all the families of the earth. For this reason, I will visit upon you all your iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Will two walk together, unless they have agreed to do so?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Will a lion roar in the forest, unless he has prey? Will the lion's young cry out from his den, unless he has taken something?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Will a bird fall into a snare on the ground, if there is no bird-catcher? Will a snare be taken away from the ground, before it has caught something?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Will the trumpet sound in a city, and the people not become frightened? Will there be disaster in a city, which the Lord has not done?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the Lord God does not fulfill his word, unless he has revealed his secret to his servants the prophets.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The lion will roar, who will not fear? The Lord God has spoken, who will not prophesy?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let it be heard in the buildings of Ashdod and in the buildings of the land of Egypt, and say: Gather together across the mountains of Samaria, and see the many absurdities in its midst, and those who are suffering false accusations in its inner most places.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they do not know how to make it right, says the Lord, storing up iniquity and plunder in their buildings.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because of these things, thus says the Lord God: The land will be encircled and squeezed together. And your strength will be drawn away from you, and your buildings will be torn apart.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thus says the Lord: Just as if a shepherd had rescued two legs from the mouth of a lion, or the tip of an ear, so also will the sons of Israel be rescued, who dwell in the sick bed of Samaria, and in the cot of Damascus.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Listen and give testimony in the house of Jacob, says the Lord God of hosts:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> that in the day, when I will begin to visit the betrayals of Israel, I will visit upon him and upon the altars of Bethel. And the horns of the altars will be cut off and will fall to the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I will strike the winter house with the summer house; and the houses of ivory will perish, and many buildings will be torn apart, says the Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>