<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These things the Lord God has revealed to me. And behold, the locust was formed at the beginning of the germination during the latter rains, and behold, the latter rains came after the thundering of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it happened, when they had finally eaten all the grass in the land, that I said, "Lord God, be gracious, I beg you. Who will raise up Jacob, for he is little?"</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The Lord has been merciful about this. "It will not be," said the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> These things the Lord God has revealed to me. And behold, the Lord God called for judgment unto fire, and it devoured the manifold abyss, and it consumed simultaneously in every direction.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I said, "Lord God, cease, I beg you. Who will raise up Jacob, for he is little?"</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The Lord has been merciful about this. "And even this will not be," said the Lord God.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> These things the Lord revealed to me. And behold, the Lord was standing near a plastered wall, and in his hand was a mason's trowel.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the Lord said to me, "What do you see, Amos?" And I said, "A mason's trowel." And the Lord said, "Behold, I will place the trowel in the midst of my people Israel. I will no longer plaster over them.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the heights of the idol will be demolished, and the sanctuaries of Israel will be desolate. And I will rise up against the house of Jeroboam with the sword."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Amaziah, the priest of Bethel, sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying: "Amos has rebelled against you in the midst of the house of Israel. The land is not able to withstand all his sermons.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For Amos says this: 'Jeroboam will die by the sword, and Israel will be taken captive out of their own land.' "</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Amaziah said to Amos, "You, seer, go out and flee into the land of Judah, and eat bread there, and prophesy there.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And in Bethel, do not prophesy any longer, because it is the king's sanctuary, and it is the house of the kingdom."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Amos responded, and he said to Amasias, "I am not a prophet, and I am not the son of a prophet, but I am a herdsman plucking from wild fig trees.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the Lord took me, when I was following the flock, and the Lord said to me, 'Go, prophesy to my people Israel.' "</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And now, hear the word of the Lord: You say, "You will not prophesy about Israel, and you will not rain your words upon the house of the idol."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because of that, the Lord says this: "Your wife will fornicate in the city, and your sons and your daughters will fall by the sword, and your soil will be measured with a string. And you will die on polluted land, and Israel will be taken into captivity out of their land."</p>

</body>
</html>