<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Listen to this word, which I lift over you in lamentation. The house of Israel has fallen, and it will no longer rise again.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The virgin of Israel has been thrown onto her land, there is no one who can raise her up.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thus says the Lord God: In the city from which a thousand departed, a hundred will remain, and in that from which a hundred departed, ten will remain, in the house of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thus says the Lord to the house of Israel: Seek me and you will live.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But do not be willing to seek Bethel, and do not be willing to enter Gilgal, and you will not cross into Beer-sheba. For Gilgal will be led into captivity, and Bethel will be useless.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Seek the Lord and live. Otherwise, the house of Joseph may be destroyed with fire, and it will devour, and there will be no one who can extinguish Bethel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You turn judgment into wormwood, and you abandon justice on earth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Maker of Arcturus and Orion, who turns darkness into daybreak and who changes day into night; who calls forth the waters of the sea and who pours them out over the face of the earth: The Lord is his name.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It is he who smiles destruction on the healthy, and who brings pillaging upon the powerful.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They held hatred for the one who corrects at the gate, and they have abhorred the one who speaks perfectly.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, on his behalf, because you have torn apart the poor and stolen choice prey from him: you will build houses with square stones and you will not dwell in them; you will plant the most delightful vineyards, and you will not drink wine from them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For I know your many wicked deeds and the strength of your sins, you enemies of the just, accepting bribes, and depriving the poor at the gate.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore, the prudent will be silent at that time, for it is an evil time.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Seek good and not evil, so that you may live. And the Lord God of hosts will be with you, just as you have asked.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Hate evil and love good, and establish judgment at the gate. Perhaps then the Lord God of hosts may have mercy on the remnant of Joseph.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, thus says the Lord God of hosts, the Sovereign: In all the streets, there will be wailing. And in every place where they are outdoors, they will say, "Woe, woe!" And they will call the farmer to mourn, and those who know mourning to lamentation.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And in all the vineyards there will be wailing. For I will cross through your midst, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Woe to those who desire the day of the Lord. What is it to you? The day of the Lord is this: darkness and not light.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> It is as if a man flees from the face of a lion, only to have a bear meet him; or, he enters a house and leans with his hand against the wall, only to have a snake bite him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Will not the day of the Lord be darkness and not light, and gloom with no brightness in it?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I hate and have rejected your feasts; and I will not accept the odor from your gatherings.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For if you offer me holocausts and your gifts, I will not receive them; and I will not look upon the vows of your fatness.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Take away from me the tumult of your songs, and I will not listen to the canticles of your lyre.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And judgment will be revealed like water, and justice like a mighty torrent.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Was it you who offered victims and sacrifices to me in the desert for forty years, house of Israel?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And you carried a tabernacle for your Moloch and the image of your idols: the star of your god, which you made for yourselves.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And I will cause you to go into captivity across Damascus, says the Lord. The God of hosts is his name.</p>

</body>
</html>