<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The words of Amos, who was among the shepherds of Tekoa, which he saw about Israel in the days of Uzziah king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel, two years before the earthquake.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said: The Lord will roar from Zion, and from Jerusalem he will utter his voice. And the beautiful pastures have mourned, and the top of Carmel has become dry.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of Damascus, and for four, I will not convert it, in so far as they have threshed Gilead into iron wagons.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will send fire onto the house of Hazael, and it will devour the houses of Ben-hadad.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I will shatter the crowbar of Damascus, and I will destroy the inhabitants of the camp of the idol and the holder of the scepter of the house of pleasure; and the people of Syria will be transferred to Cyrene, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of Gaza, and for four, I will not convert it, in so far as they have carried out an excellent captivity, so as to enclose them in Idumea.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I will send a fire onto the wall of Gaza, and it will devour its buildings.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I will destroy the inhabitant from Ashdod, and the holder of the scepter of Ashkelon. And I will turn my hand against Ekron, and the remainder of the Philistines will perish, says the Lord God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of Tyre, and for four, I will not convert it, in so far as they have completed an excellent captivity in Idumea and have not considered the bond among brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I will send a fire onto the wall of Tyre, and it will devour its buildings.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of Edom, and for four, I will not convert him, in so far as he has been pursuing his brother with the sword and has outraged his brother's compassion, and he has gone beyond his anger and has held onto his indignation until the end.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will send a fire onto Teman, and it will devour the buildings of Bozrah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thus says the Lord: For three wicked deeds of the sons of Ammon, and for four, I will not convert him, in so far as he has cut up the pregnant women of Gilead, so as to expand his limits.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will ignite a fire on the wall of Rabbah. And it will devour its buildings, with wailing on the day of war, and with a whirlwind on the day of commotion.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Melchom will go into captivity, he and his leaders together, says the Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>