<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Listen to this word, you fat cows that are on the mountain of Samaria, you who make false accusations against the destitute and crush the poor, who say to your nobles, "Bring, and we will drink."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The Lord God has sworn in his holiness: behold, the days that will overcome you and that will impale you on poles, and that will place what remains of you in boiling pots.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And you will go out through the breaches, one over another, and you will be cast out into Harmon, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Come to Bethel and behave impiously, to Gilgal and increase betrayals. And bring daybreak to your victims, your tithes in three days.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And offer a sacrifice of praise with leaven. And call for voluntary oblations, and announce it. For such is your will, sons of Israel, says the Lord God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, because of this, I have given you dull teeth in every one of your cities, and a lack of bread in all your places. And you have not been turned back towards me, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, I have withheld the rains from you, when there were still three months left until the harvest. And I rained on one city, and I did not rain on another city; one part was rained on, and the part on which I did not rain, dried out.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And two and three cities went to one city, in order to drink water, and they were not satisfied. And you did not return to me, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I struck you with a burning wind and with yellowing; the caterpillar has consumed your many gardens and your vineyards, your olive groves and your fig groves. And you did not return to me, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I sent death to you by way of Egypt; I struck your youths with the sword, even bringing captivity to your horses. And I made the stench of your camp ascend into your nostrils. And you did not return to me, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I overturned you, just as God overturned Sodom and Gomorrah, and you became like an ember seized from the fire. And you did not return to me, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Because of this, I will do these things to you, Israel. But after I have done these things to you, Israel, be prepared to meet your God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For behold, he who forms the mountains and creates the wind and announces his speech to man, who makes the morning mist and steps over the heights of the earth: the Lord God of hosts is his name.</p>

</body>
</html>