<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jonah 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jonah 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Lord prepared a great fish to swallow Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish for three days and three nights.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Jonah prayed to the Lord, his God, from the belly of the fish.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said: "I cried out to the Lord from my tribulation, and he heeded me. From the belly of hell, I cried out, and you heeded my voice.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And you have thrown me into the deep, in the heart of the sea, and a flood has encircled me. All your whirlpools and your waves have passed over me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I said: I am expelled from the sight of your eyes. Yet, truly, I will see your holy temple again.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The waters surrounded me, even to the soul. The abyss has walled me in. The ocean has covered my head.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I descended to the base of the mountains. The bars of the earth have enclosed me forever. And you will raise up my life from corruption, Lord, my God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> When my soul was in anguish within me, I called to mind the Lord, so that my prayer might come to you, to your holy temple.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Those who in vain observe vanities, abandon their own mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But I, with a voice of praise, will sacrifice to you. I will repay whatever I have vowed to the Lord, because of my salvation."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Lord spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah onto dry land.</p>

</body>
</html>