<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jonah 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jonah 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jonah was afflicted with a great affliction, and he was angry.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he prayed to the Lord, and he said, "I beg you, Lord, was this not my word, when I was still in my own land? Because of this, I knew beforehand to flee into Tarshish. For I know that you are a lenient and merciful God, patient and great in compassion, and forgiving despite ill will.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And now, Lord, I ask you to take my life from me. For it is better for me to die than to live."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the Lord said, "Do you really think you are right to be angry?"</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jonah went out of the city, and he sat opposite the east of the city. And he made himself a shelter there, and he was sitting under it in the shadow, until he might see what would befall the city.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Lord God prepared an ivy, and it ascended over the head of Jonah so as to be a shadow over his head, and to protect him (for he had labored hard). And Jonah rejoiced because of the ivy, with great rejoicing.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And God prepared a worm, when dawn approached on the next day, and it struck the ivy, and it dried up.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when the sun had risen, the Lord ordered a hot and burning wind. And the sun beat down on the head of Jonah, and he burned. And he petitioned for his soul that he might die, and he said, "It is better for me to die than to live."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the Lord said to Jonah, "Do you really think that you are right to be angry because of the ivy?" And he said, "I am right to be angry even unto death."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the Lord said, "You grieve for the ivy, for which you have not labored and which you did not cause to grow, though it had been born during one night, and during one night perished.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And shall I not spare Nineveh, the great city, in which there are more than one hundred and twenty thousand men, who do not know the difference between their right and their left, and many beasts?"</p>

</body>
</html>