<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to you who devise useless things and who work evil in your beds. In the morning light, they undertake it, because their hand is against God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they have desired fields and have taken them by violence, and they have stolen houses. And they have made false accusations against a man and his house, a man and his inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For this reason, thus says the Lord: Behold, I devise an evil against this family, from which you will not steal away your necks. And you will not walk in arrogance, because this is a most wicked time.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In that day, a parable will be taken up about you, and a song will be sung with sweetness, saying: "We have been devastated by depopulation." The fate of my people has been altered. How can he withdraw from me, when he might be turned back, he who might tear apart our country?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Because of this, there will be for you no casting of the cord of fate in the assembly of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Do not speak by saying, "It will not drop on these ones; shame will not embrace them."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The house of Jacob says, "Has the Spirit of the Lord been weakened, or are such things his thoughts?" Are not my words good for him who walks uprightly?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But, to the contrary, my people have risen up in opposition. You have lifted the cover from the undergarment, and those who passed by harmlessly, you have converted into war.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You have evicted the women among my people from their delicate houses. You have taken my praise forever from their little ones.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Rise and depart, for there is no relief for you here. Because of its uncleanness, it will be corrupted with a most wicked decay.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I wish that I were not a man who has breath, and that I rather spoke a lie. I will drop it down to you in wine and in drunkenness. And it will be this people on whom it will rain down.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will gather together in a congregation all of you, Jacob. I will lead together as one, the remnant of Israel. I will set them together like a flock in the fold, like a sheep in the midst of the sheep pen. They will cause a tumult before the multitude of men.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For he will ascend, opening the way before them. They will separate, and they will cross the gate and enter through it. And their king will pass by, before their very eyes, and the Lord will be at their head.</p>

</body>
</html>