<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And this shall be: In the last days, the mountain of the house of the Lord will be prepared at the top of the mountains and high above the hills. And the people will flow to it.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And many nations will hurry, and will say: "Come, let us ascend to the mountain of the Lord and to the house of the God of Jacob. And he will teach us about his ways, and we will walk in his paths." For the law will go forth from Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he will judge among the many peoples, and he will correct strong nations, even from afar. And they will cut up their swords into plows, and their spears into hoes. Nation will not take up the sword against nation, and they will no longer learn to wage war.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And a man will sit under his vine and under his fig tree, and there will be no one to fear, for the mouth of the Lord of hosts has spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For all people will walk, each one in the name of his god. But we will walk in the name of the Lord our God, forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In that day, says the Lord, I will gather together the lame. And I will recover her whom I had rejected, and her whom I had afflicted.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I will place the lame within the remnant, and she who had been in distress, within a healthy people. And the Lord will reign over them on Mount Zion, from the present time and even unto eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And you, cloudy tower of the flock of the daughter of Zion, even to you it will come. And the first power will arrive, the kingdom to the daughter of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Now, why have you come together in grief? Is there not a king in you, or has your counselor gone away? For sorrow has overtaken you, like the pain of giving birth.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Be grieved and overwhelmed, daughter of Zion, like a woman giving birth. For now you must depart from the city and dwell in the countryside, and you will approach even to Babylon. There you will be delivered. There the Lord will redeem you from the hand of your adversaries.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And now many peoples have been gathered together against you, and they say, "Let her be stoned and let our eyes gaze upon Zion."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But they have not known the thoughts of the Lord, and they have not understood his counsel. For he has gathered them together like hay on a threshing floor.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Rise and thresh, daughter of Zion. For I will set your horn like iron, and I will set your hoofs like brass. And you will shatter many peoples, and you will immolate their spoils for the Lord, and their strength for the Lord of the whole earth.</p>

</body>
</html>