<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of the Lord that came to Micah the Moreshethite, in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he saw about Samaria and Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> All peoples, listen. And may the earth and its fullness pay attention. And may the Lord God be a witness to you, the Lord from his holy temple.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For behold, the Lord will go forth from his place. And he will descend, and he will trample over the high places of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the mountains will be consumed under him, and the valleys will be torn apart, like wax before the face of fire, and like waters that rush swiftly downward.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> All this is for the wickedness of Jacob and for the sins of the house of Israel. What is the wickedness of Jacob? Is it not Samaria? And what is the loftiness of Judah? Is it not Jerusalem?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I will place Samaria like a pile of stones in the field, when a vineyard is planted. And I will pull down its stones into the valley, and I will reveal her foundations.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And all her graven images will be cut to pieces, and all her rewards will be burned with fire, and I will place all her idols in perdition. For they have been gathered together from the pay of a kept woman, and even to the pay of a kept woman, they will return.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will lament and wail about this. I will go out despoiled and naked. I will make a howl like the dragons, and a mourning like the ostriches.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For her wound has been in despair. For it has come even to Judah. It has touched the gate of my people, even to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Do not be willing to announce it in Gath; may you not lament with tears. In the house of Dust, besprinkle yourselves with dust.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And cross over to your dwelling place, Beauty, bewildered by disgrace. She did not depart, who dwells at the place of departure. The House nearby, which remained firm by herself, will receive mourning from you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For she has been weakened in goodness, who dwells in bitterness. For disaster has descended from the Lord to the gate of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A tumult of four-horse chariots has stupefied the inhabitants of Lachish. The beginning has been sin for the daughter of Zion, because in you have been found the evil deeds of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Because of this, she will send emissaries to the inheritance of Gath: the house of Lying in order to deceive the kings of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Nevertheless, I will lead an heir to you, who dwell in Mareshah: the glory of Israel will reach all the way to Adullam.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Become bald and shaved for your delicate sons. Increase your baldness like the eagle. For they have been carried into captivity from you.</p>

</body>
</html>