<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to me, for I have become just like one who gleans the clusters of the vintage in autumn. There is no cluster of grapes to consume; my soul desired figs out of season.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The holy ones pass away from the land, and there is no one righteous among men. All wait in ambush for blood; a man hunts his brother to death.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The evil of their hands, they call good. The leader is demanding, and the judge is yielding, and the great is speaking the desire of his soul, and they have confused it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Whoever is best among them is like a thorny plant, and he who is righteous is like a thorny hedge. The day of your inspection, your visitation, arrives. Now will be their ruination.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Do not be willing to believe a friend. And do not be willing to confide in a commander. From her, who sleeps in your bosom, keep the doors of your mouth closed.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the son acts with contempt for the father, and the daughter rises up against her mother, the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, and a man's enemies are those of his own household.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But I will look towards the Lord. I will wait for God, my Savior. My God will hear me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You, my enemy, should not rejoice over me because I have fallen. I will rise up, when I sit in darkness. The Lord is my light.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will carry the wrath of the Lord, because I have sinned against him, until he may judge my case and execute judgment for me. He will lead me into the light. I will behold his justice.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And my enemy will look, and she will be covered with confusion, she who says to me, "Where is the Lord your God?" My eyes will look upon her. Now she will be trampled under foot like the mud of the streets.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The day that your walls will be rebuilt, in that day the law will be far away.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In that day also, they will come towards you even from Assur, and even to the fortified cities, and from the fortified cities even to the river, and from sea to sea, and from mountain to mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the land will be in desolation, because of its inhabitants and because of the fruit of their intentions.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> With your rod, pasture your people, the flock of your inheritance, living alone in the narrow forest, in the midst of Carmel. They will graze in Bashan and Gilead, as in the ancient days.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> As in the days of your departure from the land of Egypt, I will reveal miracles to him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The nations will look, and they will be confounded at the strength of them all. They will place hand over mouth; their ears will be deaf.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They will lick the dust like serpents, and, like the creeping things of the earth, they will be disturbed in their houses. They will dread the Lord our God, and they will fear you.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> What God is like you, who takes away iniquity and passes over the sin of the remnant of your inheritance? No longer will he send forth his fury, because he is willing to be merciful.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He will turn back and have mercy on us. He will put away our iniquities, and he will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You will give the truth to Jacob, mercy to Abraham, which you swore to our fathers from the ancient days.</p>

</body>
</html>