<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nahum 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nahum 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to the city of blood, filled with all manner of lies and violence. Crime shall not depart from you:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> the voice of the whip, and the voice of the turning wheels, and of the neighing horse, and the burning chariot, and the horsemen who ride,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and of the flashing sword and the shining spear, and of a multitude executed and a grievous ruination. Neither is there an end to the dead bodies, and they will fall down upon their dead bodies.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Because of the multitude of fornications of the kept woman, beautiful and pleasing and practicing evil deeds, who sold nations by her fornications, and families by her evil doing:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> behold, I will come to you, says the Lord of hosts, and I will reveal your shame to your face, and I will show your nakedness to the Gentiles, and your disgrace to kingdoms.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I will cast abominations over you, and I will afflict you with abuse, and I will make an example of you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And this shall be: everyone who sees you, will recoil from you, and he will say: "Nineveh has been devastated." Who will shake his head over you? Where might I seek consolation for you?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Are you better than the populous Alexandria, which dwells along the rivers? Waters encircle it: the sea, with its riches. The waters are its walls.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ethiopia and Egypt were its strength, and there is no limit. Africa and Northern Africa have been your helpers.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Nevertheless, she has been led away with the transmigration into captivity. Her little ones have been dashed in pieces at the top of every street, and they have cast lots over her celebrities, and all her elite have been fastened together in shackles.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, you also will become inebriated, and you will be despised, and you will seek help from the opposition.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> All your fortresses will be like fig trees with their green figs. If they are shaken violently, they will fall into the mouth of the one who devours.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, women are at the center of your people. The gates of your land will be opened wide for your enemies; fire will devour your bars.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Draw in water because of the blockade; build up your fortresses. Go into the clay and tread; work it to make brick.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> There, fire will devour you. You will perish by the sword; it will devour you like the beetle. Gather together like the beetle. Multiply like the locust.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> You have made more negotiations than there are stars in the sky. The beetle has spread out and flown away.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Your guardians are like locusts, and your little ones are like locusts among locusts, which alight on hedges on a cold day. The sun rose up, and they flew away, and there was no way to know the place where they had been.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Your shepherds have become drowsy, king Assur. Your princes will be buried. Your people have remained hidden in the mountains, and there is no one to gather them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Your destruction is not hidden; your wound is grievous. All who have heard of your fame have clenched their hands over you, because over whom has your wickedness not trampled continually?</p>

</body>
</html>