<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Habakkuk 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Habakkuk 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden that Habakkuk the prophet saw.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How long, O Lord, shall I cry out, and you will not heed? Shall I shout to you while suffering violence, and you will not save?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Why have you revealed to me iniquity and hardship, to see plunder and injustice opposite me? And there has been judgment, but the opposition is more powerful.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Because of this, the law has been torn apart, and judgment does not persevere to its conclusion. For the impious prevail against the just. Because of this, a perverse judgment is issued.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Gaze among the nations, and see. Admire, and be astounded. For a work has been done in your days, which no one will believe when it is told.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For behold, I will raise up the Chaldeans, a bitter and swift people, marching across the width of the earth, to possess tabernacles not their own.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> It is dreadful and terrible. From themselves, judgment and their burden will issue.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Their horses are more nimble than leopards and swifter than wolves in the evening; their horsemen will spread out. And then their horsemen will approach from far away; they will fly like the eagle, hurrying to devour.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They will all approach towards the prey; their face is like a burning wind. And they will gather captives together like sand.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And concerning kings, he will triumph, and sovereign rulers will be his laughingstock, and he will laugh over every fortress, and he will transport a rampart and seize it.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then his spirit will be altered, and he will cross over and fall. Such is his strength from his god.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Have you not existed from the beginning, Lord my God, my holy one, and so we shall not die? Lord, you have stationed him for judgment, and you have establish that his strength will be swept away.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Your eyes are pure, you do not behold evil, and you cannot look towards iniquity. Why do you look upon the agents of iniquity, and remain silent, while the impious is devouring one who is more just than himself?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And you will make men like the fish of the sea and like the creeping things that have no ruler.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He lifted up everything with his hook. He drew them in with his dragnet, and gathered them into his netting. Over this, he will rejoice and exult.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For this reason, he will offer victims to his dragnet, and he will sacrifice to his netting. For through them, his portion has been made fat, and his meals elite.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because of this, therefore, he expands his dragnet and will not be lenient in continually putting to death the peoples.</p>

</body>
</html>