<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zephaniah 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zephaniah 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of the Lord that came to Zephaniah the son of Cushi, the son of Gedaliah, the son of Amariah, the son of Hezekiah, in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> While gathering, I will gather together all things from the face of the earth, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will gather man and cattle; I will gather the flying things of the air and the fish of the sea. And the impious will be a catastrophe. And I will disperse men before the face of the earth, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will extend my hand over Judah and over all the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And I will disperse from this place the remnant of Baal, and the names of the administrators along with the priests,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and those who adore the military campaign over the ceiling of the sky, both those who adore and swear by the Lord, and those who swear by Melchom,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> both those who turn aside from following after the Lord, and those who have not sought the Lord, nor inquired about him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Be silent before the face of the Lord God. For the day of the Lord is near; for the Lord has prepared a victim, he has sanctified those he has called.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And this shall be: in the day of the victim of the Lord, I will visit upon the leaders, and upon the sons of the king, and upon all who have been clothed with strange garments.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I will visit upon all who enter arrogantly over the threshold in that day, those who fill the house of the Lord their God with iniquity and deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And this shall be in that day, says the Lord: the voice of an outcry from the fish gate, and a howling from the Second, and a great contrition from the hills.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Howl, inhabitants of the Pillar. All the people of Canaan have fallen silent. All were ruined who had been wrapped in silver.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And this shall be in that time: I will scrutinize Jerusalem with lamps, and I will visit upon the men who have become stuck in the dregs, who say in their hearts, "The Lord will not do good, and he will not do evil."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And their strength will be in plundering, and their houses in the desert. And they will build houses and not dwell in them, and they will plant vineyards and not drink their wine.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The great day of the Lord is near; it is near and exceedingly swift. The voice of the day of the Lord is bitter; the strong will be tested there.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> That day is a day of wrath, a day of tribulation and anguish, a day of calamity and misery, a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and whirlwinds,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> a day of the trumpet and the trumpet blast over fortified cities and over exalted ramparts.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I will trouble men, and they will walk like the blind, because they have sinned against the Lord. And their blood will be poured out like soil, and their bodies like manure.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Neither their silver, nor their gold, will be able to free them in the day of the wrath of the Lord. All the land will be devoured in the fire of his zeal, for with all speed, he will bring to consummation every inhabitant of the land.</p>

</body>
</html>