<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the angel who had been speaking with me returned, and he awakened me, like a man who is awakened from his sleep.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said to me, "What do you see?" And I said, "I looked, and behold, a candlestick entirely in gold, and its lamp was at its top, and seven oil lamps of it were upon it, and there were seven funnels for the oil lamps that were at its top.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And there were two olive trees upon it: one to the right of the lamp, and one to its left."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I answered and spoke to the angel who was speaking with me, saying, "What are these, my lord?"</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the angel who was speaking with me answered, and he said to me, "Do you not know what these are?" And I said, "No, my lord."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he answered and spoke to me, saying: This is the word of the Lord to Zerubbabel, saying: Not by an army, nor by might, but in my spirit, says the Lord of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What are you, great mountain, in the sight of Zerubbabel? You are among the plains. And he will lead out the primary stone, and he will give equal grace to its grace.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The hand of Zerubbabel has founded this house, and his hands will complete it. And you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For who has despised the little days? And they will rejoice and will see the silver and lead stone in the hand of Zerubbabel. These are the seven eyes of the Lord, which roam quickly through all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I responded and said to him, "What are these two olive trees to the right of the candlestick, and to its left?"</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I responded a second time and said to him, "What are the two olive branches, which are next to the two golden ridges, in which are the pouring spouts of gold?"</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he spoke to me, saying, "Do you not know what these are?" And I said, "No, my lord."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he said, "These are the two sons of oil, who attend before the Sovereign of all the earth."</p>

</body>
</html>