<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I turned and lifted up my eyes. And I saw, and behold, a book flying.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said to me, "What do you see?" And I said, "I see a book flying. Its length is twenty cubits, and its width is ten cubits."</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said to me, "This is the curse that goes forth over the face of the whole earth. For every thief will be judged, just as it has been written there, and everyone who swears by this, will be judged in like manner."</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will bring it forth, says the Lord of hosts, and it will approach to the house of the thief, and to the house of him who swears falsely by my name, and it will remain in the midst of his house and will consume it, with its wood and its stones.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the angel had departed, who was speaking with me. And he said to me, "Lift up your eyes, and see what this is, that goes forth."</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I said, "What, then, is it?" And he said, "This is a container going forth." And he said, "This is their eye in all the earth."</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And behold, a talent of lead was being carried; and behold, one woman sitting in the middle of the container.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he said, "This is impiety." And he cast her into the middle of the container, and he sent the weight of lead into its mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I lifted up my eyes and I saw. And behold, two women were departing, and a spirit was in their wings, and they had wings like the wings of a kite, and they lifted up the container between earth and heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I said to the angel who was speaking with me, "Where are they taking the container?"</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said to me, "To a house that may be built for it in the land of Shinar, and so that it may be established and set there upon its own base."</p>

</body>
</html>