<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Petition before the Lord for rain in the latter time, and the Lord will produce snows and will give showers of rain to them, to each blade in the field.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the images have been speaking what is useless, and the diviners have seen a lie, and the dreamers have been speaking false hope: they have comforted in vain. For this reason, they have been led away like a flock; they will be afflicted, because they have no shepherd.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My fury has been kindled over the shepherds, and I will visit upon the he-goats. For the Lord of hosts has visited his flock, the house of Judah, and he has set them like the horse of his glory in the war.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> From him will go forth the angle, from him the wooden peg, from him the bow of battle, from him every exactor at the same time.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they will be like the strong, trampling the mud of the ways in battle. And they will fight, for the Lord is with them. And the riders of the horses will be confounded.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will save the house of Joseph, and I will convert them, because I will have mercy on them. And they will be as they were when I had not cast them away. For I am the Lord their God, and I will hear them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they will be like the strong of Ephraim, and their heart will rejoice as if by wine, and their sons will see and will rejoice, and their heart will exult in the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will whistle for them, and I will gather them together, because I have redeemed them. And I will multiply them, as they had been multiplied before.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I will sow them among the peoples, and from far away they will remember me. And they will live with their sons, and they will return.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I will lead them back from the land of Egypt, and I will gather them from among the Assyrians, and I will lead them to the land of Gilead and Lebanon, and no place will be left that has not been found by them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he will pass over the narrow passage of the sea, and he will strike the waves of the sea, and all the depths of the river will be confounded, and the arrogance of Assyria will be brought low, and the scepter of Egypt will withdraw.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will strengthen them in the Lord, and they will walk in his name, says the Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>