<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I turned, and I lifted up my eyes and I saw. And behold, four four-horse chariots went out from the middle of two mountains. And the mountains were mountains of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In the first chariot were red horses, and in the second chariot were black horses,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and in the third chariot were white horses, and in the fourth chariot were speckled horses, and they were strong.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I responded and said to the angel who was speaking with me, "What are these, my lord?"</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the angel answered and said to me, "These are the four winds of heaven, which go forth to stand in the presence of the Sovereign of all the earth."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The one with the black horses was departing into the land of the North, and the white went forth after them, and the speckled went forth towards the land of the South.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yet those who were the most strong, went out, and sought to go and to roam quickly through all the earth. And he said, "Go, walk throughout the earth." And they walked throughout the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he called me and spoke with me, saying, "Behold, those who go forth to the land of the North, have quieted my spirit in the land of the North."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the word of the Lord came to me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> From those of the captivity, take from Heldai, and from Tobijah, and from Jedaiah. You will approach in that day, and you will go into the house of Josiah, the son of Zephaniah, who came from Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And you will take gold and silver; and you will make crowns, and you will set them on the head of Jesus the son of Jehozadak, the high priest.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And you will speak to him, saying: Thus says the Lord of hosts, saying: Behold, a man; the Rising is his name. And under him, he will rise up, and he will build a temple to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he will raise a temple to the Lord. And he will carry the glory, and he will sit and rule upon his throne. And he will be a priest upon his throne, and a counsel of peace will be between the two of them.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the crowns will be to Heldai, and Tobijah, and Jedaiah, as well as to Hem, the son of Zephaniah, as a memorial in the temple of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And those who are far away, will approach, and will build in the temple of the Lord. And you will know that the Lord of hosts sent me to you. Yet this shall be only if, when hearing, you will have heeded the voice of the Lord your God.</p>

</body>
</html>