<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I lifted up my eyes, and I saw, and behold, a man, and in his hand was a measuring line.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I said, "Where are you going?" And he said to me, "To measure Jerusalem, so that I may see how great its width and how great its length may be."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And behold, the angel, who had been speaking with me, departed, and another angel went out to meet him.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he said to him: Hurry, speak to this young man, saying: Jerusalem will be inhabited without walls, because of the multitude of men and beasts of burden in its midst.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I will be to it, says the Lord, a wall of fire all around. And in glory, I will be in its midst.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O, O flee from the land of the North, says the Lord, for I have scattered you into the four winds of heaven, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> O Zion, flee, you who dwell with the daughter of Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For thus says the Lord of hosts: After the glory, he has sent me to the Gentiles, which have despoiled you. For he who touches you, touches the pupil of my eye.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For behold, I lift up my hand over them, and they will be a prey to those who had served them. And you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Sing praise and rejoice, daughter of Zion. For behold, I approach, and I will dwell in your midst, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And many nations will be joined to the Lord in that day, and they will be my people, and I will dwell in your midst. And you will know that the Lord of hosts has sent me to you.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the Lord will possess his portion, Judah, in the sanctified land, and still he will single out Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let all flesh be silent before the face of the Lord: for he has arisen from his holy dwelling place.</p>

</body>
</html>