<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In that day, there will be a fountain open to the house of David and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for the washing of the transgressor and of the defiled woman.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And this shall be in that day, says the Lord of hosts: I will disperse the names of the idols from the earth, and they will not be remembered any longer. And I will take away the false prophets and the unclean spirit from the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And this shall be: when any devotee will continue to prophesy, his father and his mother, who conceived him, will say to him, "You shall not live, because you have been speaking a lie in the name of the Lord." And his father and his mother, his own parents, will pierce him, when he will prophesy.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And this shall be: In that day, the prophets will be confounded, each one by his own vision, when he will prophesy. Neither will they be covered with a garment of sackcloth in order to deceive.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But he will say, "I am not a prophet; I am a man of agriculture. For Adam has been my example from my youth."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they will say to him, "What are these wounds in the middle of your hands?" And he will say, "I was wounded with these in the house of those who love me."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Awake, O spear, against my shepherd and against the man that clings to me, says the Lord of hosts. Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered. And I will turn my hand to the little ones.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there will be in all the earth, says the Lord, two parts in it will be scattered and will pass away, and the third part will be left behind.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I will lead the third part through fire, and I will burn them just as silver is burned, and I will test them just as gold is tested. They will call on my name, and I will heed them. I will say, "You are my people." And they will say, "The Lord is my God."</p>

</body>
</html>