<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Lord revealed to me: Jesus the high priest, standing in the sight of the angel of the Lord. And Satan stood before his right hand, so as to be his adversary.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the Lord said to Satan, "May the Lord rebuke you, Satan! And may the Lord, who chose Jerusalem, rebuke you! Are you not a firebrand plucked from the fire?"</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Jesus was clothed with filthy garments. And he stood before the face of an angel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He answered and spoke to those who stood before him, saying, "Take away the filthy garments from him." And he said to him, "Behold, I have taken away from you your iniquity, and I have clothed you with a change of clothing."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he said, "Place a clean diadem on his head." And they placed a clean diadem on his head, and they clothed him with garments. And the angel of the Lord remained standing.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the angel of the Lord contested with Jesus, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thus says the Lord of hosts: If you will walk in my ways and keep my charge, you likewise will judge my house and will keep my courts, and I will give you some of those who now attend here to walk with you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Listen, Jesus the high priest, you and your friends, who dwell before you, who have been portending to men. For behold, I will lead my servant to the East.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For behold, the stone that I have bestowed before Jesus. Upon one stone, there are seven eyes. Behold, I will carve its engraving, says the Lord of hosts. And I will take away the iniquity of that land in one day.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> On that day, says the Lord of hosts, every man will call his friend from under the vine and from under the fig tree.</p>

</body>
</html>