<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Malachi 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Malachi 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of the word of the Lord to Israel by the hand of Malachi.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have loved you, says the Lord, and you have said, "In what way have you loved us?" Was not Esau brother to Jacob, says the Lord? And have I not loved Jacob,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> but held hatred for Esau? And I have set his mountains in solitude, and his inheritance with the serpents of the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But if Idumea will say, "We have been destroyed, but when we return, we will build up what has been destroyed," thus says the Lord of hosts: They will build up, and I will destroy. And they will be called "The limits of impiety," and, "The people with whom the Lord has been angry, even to eternity."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And your eyes will see. And you will say, "May the Lord be magnified beyond the limits of Israel."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The son honors the father, and the servant his master. If, therefore, I am Father, where is my honor? And if I am Master, where is my fear? says the Lord of hosts to you, O priests, who despise my name. And you have said, "In what way, have we despised your name?"</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You offer polluted bread upon my altar, and you say, "In what way, have we polluted you?" In that you say, "The table of the Lord has been despised."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If you offer the blind for sacrifice, is this not evil? And if you offer the lame and the sick, is this not evil? Offer it to your leader, if he will be pleased with it, or if he will accept your face, says the Lord of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And now, beseech the face of God, so that he may have mercy on you (for by your hand has this been done) if, in any way, he might accept your faces, says the Lord of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who is there among you that would close the doors and enflame my altar without pay? I have no favor in you, says the Lord of hosts. And I will not accept a gift from your hand.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For, from the rising of the sun even to its setting, my name is great among the Gentiles, and in every place, a clean oblation is being sacrificed and offered to my name. For my name is great among the Gentiles, says the Lord of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And you have polluted it, in that you say, "The table of the Lord has been contaminated; and that which is placed upon it is contemptible, compared with the fire that devours it."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And you have said, "Behold our labor," and you have exhaled it away, says the Lord of hosts. And you brought in by plunder the lame, and the sick, and brought it in as a gift. How can I receive this from your hand, says the Lord?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Cursed is the deceitful, who holds in his flock a male, and, when making a vow, offers in sacrifice that which is feeble to the Lord. For I am a great King, says the Lord of hosts, and my name is dreadful among the Gentiles.</p>

</body>
</html>