<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Malachi 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Malachi 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold, I send my angel, and he will prepare the way before my face. And presently the Sovereign, whom you seek, and the angel of testimony, whom you desire, will arrive at his temple. Behold, he approaches, says the Lord of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And who will be able to consider the day of his advent, and who will stand firm in order to see him? For he is like a refining fire, and like the fuller's herb.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he will sit refining and cleansing the silver, and he will purge the sons of Levi, and he will gather them like gold and like silver, and they will offer sacrifices to the Lord in justice.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the sacrifice of Judah and of Jerusalem will please the Lord, just as in the days of past generations, and as in the ancient years.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I will approach you in judgment, and I will be a swift witness against evil-doers, and adulterers, and perjurers, and those who cheat the hired hand in his wages, the widows and the orphans, and who oppress the traveler, and who have not feared me, says the Lord of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For I am the Lord, and I do not change. And you, the sons of Jacob, have not been consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For, from the days of your fathers, you have withdrawn from my ordinances and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. And you have said, "In what way, shall we return?"</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If a man will afflict God, then you greatly afflict me. And you have said, "In what way, do we afflict you?" In tithes and in first-fruits.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And you have been cursed with privation, and you greatly afflict me, even your entire people.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Bring all the tithes into the storehouse, and let there be food in my house. And test me about this, says the Lord, as to whether I will not open to you the floodgates of heaven, and pour out to you a blessing, all the way to abundance.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I will rebuke for your sakes the devourer, and he will not corrupt the fruit of your land. Neither will the vine in the field be barren, says the Lord of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And all nations will call you blessed. For you will be a desirable land, says the Lord of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Your words have gathered strength over me, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And you have said, "What have we spoken against you?" You have said, "He labors in vain who serves God," and, "What advantage is it that we have kept his precepts, and that we have walked sorrowfully in the sight of the Lord of hosts?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore, we now call the arrogant blessed, as if those who work impiety have been built up, and as if they have tempted God and been saved."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then those who fear the Lord spoke, each one with his neighbor. And the Lord paid attention and heeded. And a book of remembrance was written in his sight, for those who fear the Lord and for those who consider his name.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they will be my special possession, says the Lord of hosts, on the day that I act. And I will spare them, just as a man spares his son who serves him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And you shall be converted, and you will see the difference between the just and the impious, and between those who serve God and those who do not serve him.</p>

</body>
</html>