<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it happened that, when Jesus had completed these words, he moved away from Galilee, and he arrived within the borders of Judea, across the Jordan.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And great crowds followed him, and he healed them there.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the Pharisees approached him, testing him, and saying, "Is it lawful for a man to separate from his wife, no matter what the cause?"</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he said to them in response, "Have you not read that he who made man from the beginning, made them male and female?" And he said:</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> "For this reason, a man shall separate from father and mother, and he shall cling to his wife, and these two shall become one flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And so, now they are not two, but one flesh. Therefore, what God has joined together, let no man separate."</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They said to him, "Then why did Moses command him to give a bill of divorce, and to separate?"</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He said to them: "Although Moses permitted you to separate from your wives, due to the hardness of your heart, it was not that way from the beginning.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I say to you, that whoever will have separated from his wife, except because of fornication, and who will have married another, commits adultery, and whoever will have married her who has been separated, commits adultery."</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His disciples said to him, "If such is the case for a man with a wife, then it is not expedient to marry."</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said to them: "Not everyone is able to grasp this word, but only those to whom it has been given.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For there are chaste persons who were born so from their mother's womb, and there are chaste persons who have been made so by men, and there are chaste persons who have made themselves chaste for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Whoever is able to grasp this, let him grasp it."</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then they brought to him little children, so that he would place his hands upon them and pray. But the disciples rebuked them.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yet truly, Jesus said to them: "Allow the little children to come to me, and do not choose to prohibit them. For the kingdom of heaven is among such as these."</p>

<p><a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And when he had imposed his hands upon them, he went away from there.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And behold, someone approached and said to him, "Good Teacher, what good should I do, so that I may have eternal life?"</p>

<p><a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said to him: "Why do you question me about what is good? One is good: God. But if you wish to enter into life, observe the commandments."</p>

<p><a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He said to him, "Which?" And Jesus said: "You shall not murder. You shall not commit adultery. You shall not steal. You shall not give false testimony.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Honor your father and your mother. And, you shall love your neighbor as yourself."</p>

<p><a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The young man said to him: "All these I have kept from my childhood. What is still lacking for me?"</p>

<p><a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Jesus said to him: "If you are willing to be perfect, go, sell what you have, and give to the poor, and then you will have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me."</p>

<p><a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And when the young man had heard this word, he went away sad, for he had many possessions.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then Jesus said to his disciples: "Amen, I say to you, that the wealthy shall enter with difficulty into the kingdom of heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for the wealthy to enter into the kingdom of heaven."</p>

<p><a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And upon hearing this, the disciples wondered greatly, saying: "Then who will be able to be saved?"</p>

<p><a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But Jesus, gazing at them, said to them: "With men, this is impossible. But with God, all things are possible."</p>

<p><a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then Peter responded by saying to him: "Behold, we have left behind all things, and we have followed you. So then, what will be for us?"</p>

<p><a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Jesus said to them: "Amen I say to you, that at the resurrection, when the Son of man shall sit on the seat of his majesty, those of you who have followed me shall also sit on twelve seats, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And anyone who has left behind home, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or land, for the sake of my name, shall receive one hundred times more, and shall possess eternal life.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But many of those who are first shall be last, and the last shall be first."</p>

</body>
</html>