<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jesus departed from the temple and went away. And his disciples approached him, so as to show him the buildings of the temple.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But he said to them in response: "Do you see all these things? Amen I say to you, there shall not remain here stone upon stone, which is not torn down."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then, when he was seated at the Mount of Olives, the disciples drew near to him privately, saying: "Tell us, when will these things be? And what will be the sign of your advent and of the consummation of the age?"</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And answering, Jesus said to them: "Pay attention, lest someone lead you astray.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For many will come in my name saying, 'I am the Christ.' And they will lead many astray.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For you will hear of battles and rumors of battles. Take care not to be disturbed. For these things must be, but the end is not so soon.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom. And there will be pestilences, and famines, and earthquakes in places.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But all these things are just the beginning of the sorrows.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then they will hand you over to tribulation, and they will kill you. And you will be hated by all nations for the sake of my name.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And then many will be led into sin, and will betray one another, and will have hatred for one another.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And many false prophets will arise, and they will lead many astray.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And because iniquity has abounded, the charity of many will grow cold.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But whoever will have persevered until the end, the same shall be saved.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And this Gospel of the kingdom shall be preached throughout the entire world, as a testimony to all nations. And then the consummation will occur.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore, when you will have seen the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of by the prophet Daniel, standing in the holy place, may he who reads understand,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> then those who are in Judea, let them flee to the mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And whoever is on the roof, let him not descend to take anything from his house.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And whoever is in the field, let him not turn back to take his tunic.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So then, woe to those who are pregnant or nursing in those days.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But pray that your flight may not be in winter, or on the Sabbath.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For then there will be a great tribulation, such as has not been from the beginning of the world until the present, and such as will not be.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And unless those days had been shortened, no flesh would be saved. But for the sake of the elect, those days shall be shortened.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then if anyone will have said to you, 'Behold, here is the Christ,' or 'he is there,' do not be willing to believe it.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For there will arise false Christs and false prophets. And they will produce great signs and wonders, so much so as to lead into error even the elect (if this could be).</p>

<p><a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Behold, I have warned you beforehand.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Therefore, if they will have said to you, 'Behold, he is in the desert,' do not choose to go out, or, 'Behold, he is in the inner rooms,' do not be willing to believe it.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For just as lightning goes out from the east, and appears even in the west, so shall it be also at the advent of the Son of man.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Wherever the body shall be, there also will the eagles be gathered together.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And immediately after the tribulation of those days, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And then the sign of the Son of man shall appear in heaven. And then all tribes of the earth shall mourn. And they shall see the Son of man coming on the clouds of heaven, with great power and majesty.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he shall send out his Angels with a trumpet and a great voice. And they shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from the heights of the heavens, even to their furthest limits.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> So, from the fig tree learn a parable. When its branch has now become tender and the leaves have sprung forth, you know that summer is near.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> So also, when you will have seen all these things, know that it is near, even at the threshold.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Amen I say to you, that this lineage shall not pass away, until all these things have been done.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But concerning that day and hour, no one knows, not even the Angels of the heavens, but only the Father.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And just as in the days of Noah, so also will be the advent of the Son of man.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> For it will be just as it was in the days before the flood: eating and drinking, marrying and being given in marriage, even until that day when Noah entered into the ark.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And they did not realize it, until the flood came and took them all away. So also will the advent of the Son of man be.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Then two men will be in a field: one will be taken up, and one will be left behind.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Two women will be grinding at a millstone: one will be taken up, and one will be left behind.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Therefore, be vigilant. For you do not know at what hour your Lord will return.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> But know this: if only the father of the family knew at what hour the thief would arrive, he would certainly keep vigil and not permit his house to be broken into.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> For this reason, you also must be prepared, for you do not know at what hour the Son of man will return.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Consider this: who is a faithful and prudent servant, who has been appointed by his lord over his family, to give them their portion in due time?</p>

<p><a id="c24_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Blessed is that servant, if, when his lord has arrived, he shall find him doing so.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Amen I say to you, he shall appoint him over all of his goods.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> But if that evil servant has said in his heart, 'My lord has been delayed in returning,'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> and so, he begins to strike his fellow servants, and he eats and drinks with the inebriated:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> then the lord of that servant will arrive on a day that he does not expect, and at an hour that he does not know.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And he shall separate him, and he shall place his portion with the hypocrites, where there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth."</p>

</body>
</html>