<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In that day, Jesus, departing from the house, sat down beside the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And such great crowds were gathered to him that he climbed into a boat and he sat down. And the entire multitude stood on the shore.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he spoke many things to them in parables, saying: "Behold, a sower went out to sow seed.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And while he was sowing, some fell beside the road, and the birds of the air came and ate it.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then others fell in a rocky place, where they did not have much soil. And they sprung up promptly, because they had no depth of soil.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But when the sun rose up, they were scorched, and because they had no roots, they withered.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Still others fell among thorns, and the thorns increased and suffocated them.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yet some others fell upon good soil, and they produced fruit: some one hundred fold, some sixty fold, some thirty fold.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And his disciples drew near to him and said, "Why do you speak to them in parables?"</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Responding, he said to them: "Because it has been given to you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but it has not been given to them.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For whoever has, it shall be given to him, and he shall have in abundance. But whoever has not, even what he has shall be taken away from him.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For this reason, I speak to them in parables: because seeing, they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And so, in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah, who said, 'Hearing, you shall hear, but not understand; and seeing, you shall see, but not perceive.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For the heart of this people has grown fat, and with their ears they hear heavily, and they have closed their eyes, lest at any time they might see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and be converted, and then I would heal them.'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But blessed are your eyes, because they see, and your ears, because they hear.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Amen I say to you, certainly, that many of the prophets and the just desired to see what you see, and yet they did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and yet they did not hear it.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Listen, then, to the parable of the sower.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> With anyone who hears the word of the kingdom and does not understand it, evil comes and carries away what was sown in his heart. This is he who received the seed by the side of the road.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then whoever has received the seed upon a rocky place, this is one who hears the word and promptly accepts it with joy.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But he has no root in himself, so it is only for a time; then, when tribulation and persecution occur because of the word, he promptly stumbles.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And whoever has received the seed among thorns, this is he who hears the word, but the cares of this age and the falseness of riches suffocate the word, and he is effectively without fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Yet truly, whoever has received the seed into good soil, this is he who hears the word, and understands it, and so he bears fruit, and he produces: some a hundred fold, and another sixty fold, and another thirty fold."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He proposed another parable to them, saying: "The kingdom of heaven is like a man who sowed good seed in his field.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But while the men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed weeds amid the wheat, and then went away.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And when the plants had grown, and had produced fruit, then the weeds also appeared.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> So the servants of the Father of the family, approaching, said to him: 'Lord, did you not sow good seed in your field? Then how is it that it has weeds?'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he said to them, 'A man who is an enemy has done this.' So the servants said to him, 'Is it your will that we should go and gather them up?'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he said: 'No, lest perhaps in gathering the weeds, you might also root out the wheat together with it.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Permit both to grow until the harvest, and at the time of the harvest, I will say to the reapers: Gather first the weeds, and bind them into bundles to burn, but the wheat gather into my storehouse.' "</p>

<p><a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He proposed another parable to them, saying: "The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and sowed in his field.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> It is, indeed, the least of all seeds, but when it has grown, it is greater than all the plants, and it becomes a tree, so much so that the birds of the air come and dwell in its branches."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He spoke another parable to them: "The kingdom of heaven is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of fine wheat flour, until it was entirely leavened."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> All these things Jesus spoke in parables to the crowds. And he did not speak to them apart from parables,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> in order to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet, saying: "I will open my mouth in parables. I will proclaim what has been hidden since the foundation of the world."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then, dismissing the crowds, he went into the house. And his disciples drew near to him, saying, "Explain to us the parable of the weeds in the field."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Responding, he said to them: "He who sows the good seed is the Son of man.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Now the field is the world. And the good seeds are the sons of the kingdom. But the weeds are the sons of wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> So the enemy who sowed them is the devil. And truly, the harvest is the consummation of the age; while the reapers are the Angels.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Therefore, just as weeds are gathered up and burned with fire, so shall it be at the consummation of the age.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> The Son of man shall send out his Angels, and they shall gather from his kingdom all who lead astray and those who work iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And he shall cast them into the furnace of fire, where there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Then the just ones shall shine like the sun, in the kingdom of their Father. Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> The kingdom of heaven is like a treasure hidden in a field. When a man finds it, he hides it, and, because of his joy, he goes and sells everything that he has, and he buys that field.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant seeking good pearls.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Having found one pearl of great value, he went away and sold all that he had, and he bought it.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net cast into the sea, which gathers together all kinds of fish.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> When it has been filled, drawing it out and sitting beside the shore, they selected the good into vessels, but the bad they threw away.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> So shall it be at the consummation of the age. The Angels shall go forth and separate the bad from the midst of the just.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And they shall cast them into the furnace of fire, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Have you understood all these things?" They say to him, "Yes."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> He said to them, "Therefore, every scribe well-taught about the kingdom of heaven, is like a man, the father of a family, who offers from his storehouse both the new and the old."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And it happened that, when Jesus had completed these parables, he went away from there.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And arriving in his own country, he taught them in their synagogues, so much so that they wondered and said: "How can such wisdom and power be with this one?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> Is this not the son of a workman? Is not his mother called Mary, and his brothers, James, and Joseph, and Simon, and Jude?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> And his sisters, are they not all with us? Therefore, from where has this one obtained all these things?"</p>

<p><a id="c13_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And they took offense at him. But Jesus said to them, "A prophet is not without honor, except in his own country and in his own house."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> And he did not work many miracles there, because of their unbelief.</p>

</body>
</html>