<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "Then the kingdom of heaven shall be like ten virgins, who, taking their lamps, went out to meet the groom and the bride.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But five of them were foolish, and five were prudent.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the five foolish, having brought their lamps, did not take oil with them.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yet truly, the prudent ones brought the oil, in their containers, with the lamps.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Since the bridegroom was delayed, they all fell asleep, and they were sleeping.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But in the middle of the night, a cry went out: 'Behold, the groom is arriving. Go out to meet him.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then all those virgins rose up and trimmed their lamps.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But the foolish ones said to the wise, 'Give to us from your oil, for our lamps are being extinguished.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The prudent responded by saying, 'Lest perhaps there may not be enough for us and for you, it would be better for you to go to the vendors and buy some for yourselves.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But while they were going to buy it, the groom arrived. And those who were prepared entered with him to the wedding, and the door was closed.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yet truly, at the very end, the remaining virgins also arrived, saying, 'Lord, Lord, open to us.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But he responded by saying, 'Amen I say to you, I do not know you.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And so you must be vigilant, because you do not know the day or the hour.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For it is like a man setting out on a long journey, who called his servants and delivered to them his goods.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And to one he gave five talents, and to another two, yet to another he gave one, to each according to his own ability. And promptly, he set out.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then he who had received five talents went out, and he made use of these, and he gained another five.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And similarly, he who had received two gained another two.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But he who had received one, going out, dug into the earth, and he hid the money of his lord.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yet truly, after a long time, the lord of those servants returned and he settled accounts with them.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when he who had received five talents approached, he brought another five talents, saying: 'Lord, you delivered five talents to me. Behold, I have increased it by another five.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His lord said to him: 'Well done, good and faithful servant. Since you have been faithful over a few things, I will appoint you over many things. Enter into the gladness of your lord.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then he who had received two talents also approached, and he said: 'Lord, you delivered two talents to me. Behold, I have gained another two.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> His lord said to him: 'Well done, good and faithful servant. Since you have been faithful over a few things, I will appoint you over many things. Enter into the gladness of your lord.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then he who had received one talent, approaching, said: 'Lord, I know that you are a hard man. You reap where you have not sown, and gather where you have not scattered.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And so, being afraid, I went out and hid your talent in the earth. Behold, you have what is yours.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But his lord said to him in response: 'You evil and lazy servant! You knew that I reap where I have not sown, and gather where I have not scattered.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Therefore, you should have deposited my money with the bankers, and then, at my arrival, at least I would have received what is mine with interest.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And so, take the talent away from him and give it the one who has ten talents.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For to everyone who has, more shall be given, and he shall have in abundance. But from him who has not, even what he seems to have, shall be taken away.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And cast that useless servant into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But when the Son of man will have arrived in his majesty, and all the Angels with him, then he will sit upon the seat of his majesty.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And all the nations shall be gathered together before him. And he shall separate them from one another, just as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he shall station the sheep, indeed, on his right, but the goats on his left.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then the King shall say to those who will be on his right: 'Come, you blessed of my Father. Possess the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For I was hungry, and you gave me to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave me to drink; I was a stranger, and you took me in;</p>

<p><a id="c25_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> naked, and you covered me; sick, and you visited me; I was in prison, and you came to me.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Then the just will answer him, saying: 'Lord, when have we see you hungry, and fed you; thirsty, and given you drink?</p>

<p><a id="c25_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And when have we seen you a stranger, and taken you in? Or naked, and covered you?</p>

<p><a id="c25_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Or when did we see you sick, or in prison, and visit to you?'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And in response, the King shall say to them, 'Amen I say to you, whenever you did this for one of these, the least of my brothers, you did it for me.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Then he shall also say, to those who will be on his left: 'Depart from me, you accursed ones, into the eternal fire, which was prepared for the devil and his angels.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> For I was hungry, and you did not give me to eat; I was thirsty, and you did not give me to drink;</p>

<p><a id="c25_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> I was a stranger and you did not take me in; naked, and you did not cover me; sick and in prison, and you did not visit me.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Then they will also answer him, saying: 'Lord, when did we see you hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister to you?'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then he shall respond to them by saying: 'Amen I say to you, whenever you did not do it to one of these least, neither did you do it to me.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And these shall go into eternal punishment, but the just shall go into eternal life."</p>

</body>
</html>