<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then the scribes and the Pharisees came to him from Jerusalem, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Why do your disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? For they do not wash their hands when they eat bread."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But responding, he said to them: "And why do you transgress the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition? For God said:</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> 'Honor your father and mother,' and, 'Whoever will have cursed father or mother shall die a death.'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But you say: 'If anyone will have said to father or mother, "It is dedicated, so that whatever is from me will benefit you,"</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> then he shall not honor his father or his mother.' So have you nullified the commandment of God, for the sake of your tradition.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hypocrites! How well did Isaiah prophesy about you, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> 'This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For in vain do they worship me, teaching the doctrines and commandments of men.' "</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And having called the multitudes to him, he said to them: "Listen and understand.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A man is not defiled by what enters into the mouth, but by what proceeds from the mouth. This is what defiles a man."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then his disciples drew near and said to him, "Do you know that the Pharisees, upon hearing this word, were offended?"</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But in response he said: "Every plant which has not been planted by my heavenly Father shall be uprooted.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Leave them alone. They are blind, and they lead the blind. But if the blind are in charge of the blind, both will fall into the pit."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And responding, Peter said to him, "Explain this parable to us."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But he said: "Are you, even now, without understanding?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Do you not understand that everything that enters into the mouth goes into the gut, and is cast into the sewer?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But what proceeds from the mouth, goes forth from the heart, and those are the things that defile a man.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For from the heart go out evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false testimonies, blasphemies.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> These are the things that defile a man. But to eat without washing hands does not defile a man."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And departing from there, Jesus withdrew into the areas of Tyre and Sidon.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And behold, a woman of Canaan, going out from those parts, cried out, saying to him: "Take pity on me, Lord, Son of David. My daughter is badly afflicted by a demon."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He did not say a word to her. And his disciples, drawing near, petitioned him, saying: "Dismiss her, for she is crying out after us."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And responding, he said, "I was not sent except to the sheep who have fallen away from the house of Israel."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But she approached and adored him, saying, "Lord, help me."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And responding, he said, "It is not good to take the bread of the children and cast it to the dogs."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But she said, "Yes, Lord, but the young dogs also eat from the crumbs that fall from the table of their masters."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then Jesus, responding, said to her: "O woman, great is your faith. Let it be done for you just as you wish." And her daughter was healed from that very hour.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And when Jesus had passed from there, he arrived beside the sea of Galilee. And ascending onto a mountain, he sat down there.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And great multitudes came to him, having with them the mute, the blind, the lame, the disabled, and many others. And they cast them down at his feet, and he cured them,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> so much so that the crowds wondered, seeing the mute speaking, the lame walking, the blind seeing. And they magnified the God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Jesus, calling together his disciples, said: "I have compassion on the crowds, because they have persevered with me now for three days, and they do not have anything to eat. And I am not willing to dismiss them, fasting, lest they faint along the way."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the disciples said to him: "From where, then, in the desert, would we obtain enough bread to satisfy so a great multitude?"</p>

<p><a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Jesus said to them, "How many loaves of bread do you have?" But they said, "Seven, and a few little fish."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And he instructed the crowds to recline upon the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And taking the seven loaves and the fish, and giving thanks, he broke and gave to his disciples, and the disciples gave to the people.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they all ate and were satisfied. And, from what was left over of the fragments, they took up seven full baskets.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But those who ate were four thousand men, plus children and women.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And having dismissed the crowd, he climbed into a boat. And he went into the coastal region of Magadan.</p>

</body>
</html>