<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it happened that, when Jesus had completed instructing his twelve disciples, he went away from there in order to teach and to preach in their cities.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now when John had heard, in prison, about the works of Christ, sending two of his disciples, he said to him,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> "Are you he who is to come, or should we expect another?"</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jesus, responding, said to them: "Go and report to John what you have heard and seen.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead rise again, the poor are evangelized.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And blessed is he who has found no offense in me."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then, after they departed, Jesus began to speak to the crowds about John: "What did you go out to the desert to see? A reed shaken by the wind?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> So what did you go out to see? A man in soft garments? Behold, those who are clothed in soft garments are in the houses of kings.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For this is he, of whom it is written: 'Behold, I send my Angel before your face, who shall prepare your way before you.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Amen I say to you, among those born of women, there has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Yet the least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But from the days of John the Baptist, even until now, the kingdom of heaven has endured violence, and the violent carry it away.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For all the prophets and the law prophesied, even until John.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And if you are willing to accept it, he is the Elijah, who is to come.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplace,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> who, calling out to their companions, say: 'We played music for you, and you did not dance. We lamented, and you did not mourn.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For John came neither eating nor drinking; and they say, 'He has a demon.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The Son of man came eating and drinking; and they say, 'Behold, a man who eats voraciously and who drinks wine, a friend of tax collectors and sinners.' But wisdom is justified by her sons."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then he began to rebuke the cities in which many of his miracles were accomplished, for they still had not repented.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> "Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the miracles that were done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in haircloth and ashes.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yet truly, I say to you, Tyre and Sidon shall be forgiven more than you, on the day of judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And you, Capernaum, would you be exalted all the way to heaven? You shall descend all the way to Hell. For if the miracles that were done in you had been done in Sodom, perhaps it would have remained, even to this day.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Yet truly, I say to you, that the land of Sodom shall be forgiven more than you, on the day of judgment."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> At that time, Jesus responded and said: "I acknowledge you, Father, Lord of Heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and the prudent, and have revealed them to little ones.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Yes, Father, for this was pleasing before you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> All things have been delivered to me by my Father. And no one knows the Son except the Father, nor does anyone know the Father except the Son, and those to whom the Son is willing to reveal him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Come to me, all you who labor and have been burdened, and I will refresh you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am meek and humble of heart; and you shall find rest for your souls.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For my yoke is sweet and my burden is light."</p>

</body>
</html>