<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when he had descended from the mountain, great crowds followed him.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And behold, a leper, drawing near, adored him, saying, "Lord, if you are willing, you are able to cleanse me."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Jesus, extending his hand, touched him, saying: "I am willing. Be cleansed." And immediately his leprosy was cleansed.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jesus said to him: "See to it that you tell no one. But go, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses instructed, as a testimony for them."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when he had entered into Capernaum, a centurion approached, petitioning him,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and saying, "Lord, my servant lies at home paralyzed and badly tormented."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jesus said to him, "I will come and heal him."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And responding, the centurion said: "Lord, I am not worthy that you should enter under my roof, but only say the word, and my servant shall be healed.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For I, too, am a man placed under authority, having soldiers under me. And I say to one, 'Go,' and he goes, and to another, 'Come,' and he comes, and to my servant, 'Do this,' and he does it."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And, hearing this, Jesus wondered. And he said to those following him: "Amen I say to you, I have not found so great a faith in Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For I say to you, that many shall come from the east and the west, and they shall sit at table with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But the sons of the kingdom shall be cast into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Jesus said to the centurion, "Go, and just as you have believed, so let it be done for you." And the servant was healed at that very hour.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when Jesus had arrived at the house of Peter, he saw his mother-in-law lying ill with a fever.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she rose up and ministered to them.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when evening arrived, they brought to him many who had demons, and he cast out the spirits with a word. And he healed all those having maladies,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> in order to fulfill what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah, saying, "He took our infirmities, and he carried away our diseases."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then Jesus, seeing the great crowds encircling him, gave orders to go across the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And one scribe, approaching, said to him, "Teacher, I will follow you wherever you will go."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Jesus said to him, "Foxes have dens, and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of man has nowhere to rest his head."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then another of his disciples said to him, "Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But Jesus said to him, "Follow me, and allow the dead to bury their dead."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And climbing into a boat, his disciples followed him.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And behold, a great tempest occurred in the sea, so much so that the boat was covered with waves; yet truly, he was sleeping.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And his disciples drew near to him, and they awakened him, saying: "Lord, save us, we are perishing."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Jesus said to them, "Why are you afraid, O little in faith?" Then rising up, he commanded the winds, and the sea. And a great tranquility occurred.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Moreover, the men wondered, saying: "What kind of man is this? For even the winds and the sea obey him."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And when he had arrived across the sea, into the region of the Gerasenes, he was met by two who had demons, who were so exceedingly savage, as they went out from among the tombs, that no one was able to cross by that way.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And behold, they cried out, saying: "What are we to you, O Jesus, the Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time?"</p>

<p><a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now there was, not far from them, a herd of many swine feeding.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then the demons petitioned him, saying: "If you cast us from here, send us into the herd of swine."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And he said to them, "Go." And they, going out, went into the swine. And behold, the entire herd suddenly rushed along a steep place into the sea. And they died in the waters.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then the shepherds fled, and arriving in the city, they reported on all this, and on those who had had the demons.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And behold, the entire city went out to meet Jesus. And having seen him, they petitioned him, so that he would cross from their borders.</p>

</body>
</html>