<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "Do not judge, so that you may not be judged.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For with whatever judgment you judge, so shall you be judged; and with whatever measure you measure out, so shall it be measured back to you.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And how can you see the splinter in your brother's eye, and not see the board in your own eye?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Or how can you say to your brother, 'Let me take the splinter from your eye,' while, behold, a board is in your own eye?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Hypocrite, first remove the board from your own eye, and then you will see clearly enough to remove the splinter from your brother's eye.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Do not give what is holy to dogs, and do not cast your pearls before swine, lest perhaps they may trample them under their feet, and then, turning, they may tear you apart.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ask, and it shall be given to you. Seek, and you shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened to you.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For everyone who asks, receives; and whoever seeks, finds; and to anyone who knocks, it will be opened.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Or what man is there among you, who, if his son were to ask him for bread, would offer him a stone;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> or if he were to ask him for a fish, would offer him a snake?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, if you, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your sons, how much more will your Father, who is in heaven, give good things to those who ask him?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore, all things whatsoever that you wish that men would do to you, do so also to them. For this is the law and the prophets.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Enter through the narrow gate. For wide is the gate, and broad is the way, which leads to perdition, and many there are who enter through it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> How narrow is the gate, and how straight is the way, which leads to life, and few there are who find it!</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> You shall know them by their fruits. Can grapes be gathered from thorns, or figs from thistles?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So then, every good tree produces good fruit, and the evil tree produces evil fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A good tree is not able to produce evil fruit, and an evil tree is not able to produce good fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Every tree which does not produce good fruit shall be cut down and cast into the fire.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Therefore, by their fruits you will know them.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Not all who say to me, 'Lord, Lord,' will enter into the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does the will of my Father, who is in heaven, the same shall enter into the kingdom of heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Many will say to me in that day, 'Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and perform many powerful deeds in your name?'</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And then will I disclose to them: 'I have never known you. Depart from me, you workers of iniquity.'</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine and does them shall be compared to a wise man, who built his house upon the rock.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the rains descended, and the floods rose up, and the winds blew, and rushed upon that house, but it did not fall, for it was founded on the rock.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them shall be like a foolish man, who built his house upon the sand.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the rains descended, and the floods rose up, and the winds blew, and rushed upon that house, and it did fall, and great was its ruin."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And it happened, when Jesus had completed these words, that the crowds were astonished at his doctrine.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For he was teaching them as one who has authority, and not like their scribes and Pharisees.</p>

</body>
</html>