<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And responding, Jesus again spoke to them in parables, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "The kingdom of heaven is like a man who was king, who celebrated a wedding for his son.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he sent his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding. But they were not willing to come.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Again, he sent other servants, saying, 'Tell the invited: Behold, I have prepared my meal. My bulls and fatlings have been killed, and all is ready. Come to the wedding.'</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But they ignored this and they went away: one to his country estate, and another to his business.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yet truly, the rest took hold of his servants and, having treated them with contempt, killed them.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But when the king heard this, he was angry. And sending out his armies, he destroyed those murderers, and he burned their city.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then he said to his servants: 'The wedding, indeed, has been prepared. But those who were invited were not worthy.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore, go out to the ways, and call whomever you will find to the wedding.'</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And his servants, departing into the ways, gathered all those whom they found, bad and good, and the wedding was filled with guests.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then the king entered to see the guests. And he saw a man there who was not clothed in a wedding garment.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he said to him, 'Friend, how is it that you have entered here without having a wedding garment?' But he was dumbstruck.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then the king said to the ministers: 'Bind his hands and feet, and cast him into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For many are called, but few are chosen.' "</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then the Pharisees, going out, took counsel as to how they might entrap him in speech.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they sent their disciples to him, with the Herodians, saying: "Teacher, we know that you are truthful, and that you teach the way of God in truth, and that the influence of others is nothing to you. For you do not consider the reputation of men.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore, tell us, how does it seem to you? Is it lawful to pay the census tax to Caesar, or not?"</p>

<p><a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But Jesus, knowing their wickedness, said: "Why do you test me, you hypocrites?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Show me the coin of the census tax." And they offered him a denarius.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Jesus said to them, "Whose image is this, and whose inscription?"</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They said to him, "Caesar's." Then he said to them, "Then render to Caesar what is of Caesar; and to God what is of God."</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And hearing this, they wondered. And having left him behind, they went away.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In that day, the Sadducees, who say there is to be no resurrection, approached him. And they questioned him,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> saying: "Teacher, Moses said: If anyone will have died, having no son, his brother shall marry his wife, and he shall raise up offspring to his brother.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now there were seven brothers with us. And the first, having taken a wife, died. And having no offspring, he left his wife to his brother:</p>

<p><a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> similarly with the second, and the third, even to the seventh.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And last of all, the woman also passed away.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In the resurrection, then, whose wife of the seven will she be? For they all had her."</p>

<p><a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But Jesus responded to them by saying: "You have gone astray by knowing neither the Scriptures, nor the power of God.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For in the resurrection, they shall neither marry, nor be given in marriage. Instead, they shall be like the Angels of God in heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But concerning the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was spoken by God, saying to you:</p>

<p><a id="c22_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> 'I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?' He is not the God of the dead, but of the living."</p>

<p><a id="c22_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And when the crowds heard this, they wondered at his doctrine.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But the Pharisees, hearing that he had caused the Sadducees to be silent, came together as one.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And one of them, a doctor of the law, questioned him, to test him:</p>

<p><a id="c22_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> "Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law?"</p>

<p><a id="c22_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Jesus said to him: " 'You shall love the Lord your God from all your heart, and with all your soul and with all your mind.'</p>

<p><a id="c22_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> This is the greatest and first commandment.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But the second is similar to it: 'You shall love your neighbor as yourself.'</p>

<p><a id="c22_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> On these two commandments the entire law depends, and also the prophets."</p>

<p><a id="c22_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Then, when the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus questioned them,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> saying: "What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he?" They said to him, "David's."</p>

<p><a id="c22_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> He said to them: "Then how can David, in the Spirit, call him Lord, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c22_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> 'The Lord said to my Lord: Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool?'</p>

<p><a id="c22_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> So then, if David calls him Lord, how can he be his son?"</p>

<p><a id="c22_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And no one was able to respond to him a word. And neither did anyone dare, from that day forward, to question him.</p>

</body>
</html>