<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And climbing into a boat, he crossed the sea, and he arrived at his own city.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And behold, they brought to him a paralytic, lying on a bed. And Jesus, seeing their faith, said to the paralytic, "Be strengthened in faith, son; your sins are forgiven you."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And behold, some of the scribes said within themselves, "He is blaspheming."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when Jesus had perceived their thoughts, he said: "Why do you think such evil in your hearts?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Which is easier to say, 'Your sins are forgiven you,' or to say, 'Rise up and walk?'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But, so that you may know that the Son of man has authority on earth to forgive sins," he then said to the paralytic, "Rise up, take up your bed, and go into your house."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he arose and went into his house.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then the crowd, seeing this, was frightened, and they glorified God, who gave such power to men.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when Jesus passed on from there, he saw, sitting at the tax office, a man named Matthew. And he said to him, "Follow me." And rising up, he followed him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And it happened that, as he was sitting down to eat in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners arrived, and they sat down to eat with Jesus and his disciples.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Pharisees, seeing this, said to his disciples, "Why does your Teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But Jesus, hearing this, said: "It is not those who are healthy who are in need of a physician, but those who have maladies.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So then, go out and learn what this means: 'I desire mercy and not sacrifice.' For I have not come to call the just, but sinners."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then the disciples of John drew near to him, saying, "Why do we and the Pharisees fast frequently, but your disciples do not fast?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Jesus said to them: "How can the sons of the groom mourn, while the groom is still with them? But the days will arrive when the groom will be taken away from them. And then they shall fast.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For no one would sew a patch of new cloth onto an old garment. For it pulls its fullness away from the garment, and the tear is made worse.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Neither do they pour new wine into old wineskins. Otherwise, the wineskins rupture, and the wine pours out, and the wineskins are destroyed. Instead, they pour new wine into new wineskins. And so, both are preserved."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> As he was speaking these things to them, behold, a certain ruler approached and adored him, saying: "Lord, my daughter has recently passed away. But come and impose your hand upon her, and she will live."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Jesus, rising up, followed him, with his disciples.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And behold, a woman, who had suffered from a flow of blood for twelve years, approached from behind and touched the hem of his garment.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For she said within herself, "If I will touch even his garment, I shall be saved."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But Jesus, turning and seeing her, said: "Be strengthened in faith, daughter; your faith has made you well." And the woman was made well from that hour.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And when Jesus had arrived in the house of the ruler, and he had seen the musicians and the tumultuous crowd,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> he said, "Depart. For the girl is not dead, but asleep." And they derided him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And when the crowd had been sent away, he entered. And he took her by the hand. And the girl rose up.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the news of this went out to that entire land.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And as Jesus passed from there, two blind men followed him, crying out and saying, "Take pity on us, Son of David."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And when he had arrived at the house, the blind men approached him. And Jesus said to them, "Do you trust that I am able to do this for you?" They say to him, "Certainly, Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Then he touched their eyes, saying, "According to your faith, so let it be done for you."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And their eyes were opened. And Jesus warned them, saying, "See to it that no one knows of this."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But going out, they spread the news of it to all that land.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then, when they had departed, behold, they brought him a man who was mute, having a demon.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And after the demon was cast out, the mute man spoke. And the crowds wondered, saying, "Never has anything like this been seen in Israel."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But the Pharisees said, "By the prince of demons does he cast out demons."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And Jesus traveled throughout all of the cities and towns, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the Gospel of the kingdom, and healing every illness and every infirmity.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then, seeing the multitudes, he had compassion on them, because they were distressed and were reclining, like sheep without a shepherd.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Then he said to his disciples: "The harvest indeed is great, but the laborers are few.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Therefore, petition the Lord of the harvest, so that he may sent out laborers to his harvest."</p>

</body>
</html>