<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now on the morning of the Sabbath, when it began to grow light on the first Sabbath, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the sepulcher.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And behold, a great earthquake occurred. For an Angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and as he approached, he rolled back the stone and sat down on it.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now his appearance was like lightning, and his vestment was like snow.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then, out of fear of him, the guards were terrified, and they became like dead men.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then the Angel responded by saying to the women: "Do not be afraid. For I know that you are seeking Jesus, who was crucified.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He is not here. For he has risen, just as he said. Come and see the place where the Lord was placed.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And then, go quickly, and tell his disciples that he has risen. And behold, he will precede you to Galilee. There you shall see him. Lo, I have told you beforehand."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they went out of the tomb quickly, with fear and in great joy, running to announce it to his disciples.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And behold, Jesus met them, saying, "Hail." But they drew near and took hold of his feet, and they adored him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Jesus said to them: "Do not be afraid. Go, announce it to my brothers, so that they may go to Galilee. There they shall see me."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when they had departed, behold, some of the guards went into the city, and they reported to the leaders of the priests all that had happened.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And gathering together with the elders, having taken counsel, they gave an abundant sum of money to the soldiers,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> saying: "Say that his disciples arrived at night and stole him away, while we were sleeping.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And if the procurator hears about this, we will persuade him, and we will protect you."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then, having accepted the money, they did as they were instructed. And this word has been spread among the Jews, even to this day.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Now the eleven disciples went on to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had appointed them.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And, seeing him, they worshipped him, but certain ones doubted.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Jesus, drawing near, spoke to them, saying: "All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore, go forth and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> teaching them to observe all that I have ever commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, even to the consummation of the age."</p>

</body>
</html>