<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> At that time, Jesus went out through the ripe grain on the Sabbath. And his disciples, being hungry, began to separate the grain and to eat.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then the Pharisees, seeing this, said to him, "Behold, your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbaths."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But he said to them: "Have you not read what David did, when he was hungry, and those who were with him:</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> how he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the Presence, which was not lawful for him to eat, nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Or have you not read in the law, that on the Sabbaths the priests in the temple violate the Sabbath, and they are without guilt?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But I say to you, that something greater than the temple is here.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And if you knew what this means, 'I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,' you would never have condemned the innocent.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the Son of man is Lord even of the Sabbath."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when he had passed from there, he went into their synagogues.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And behold, there was a man who had a withered hand, and they questioned him, so that they might accuse him, saying, "Is it lawful to cure on the Sabbaths?"</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But he said to them: "Who is there among you, having even one sheep, if it will have fallen into a pit on the Sabbath, would not take hold of it and lift it up?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> How much better is a man than a sheep? And so, it is lawful to do good on the Sabbaths."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then he said to the man, "Extend your hand." And he extended it, and it was restored to health, just like the other one.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then the Pharisees, departing, took council against him, as to how they might destroy him.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But Jesus, knowing this, withdrew from there. And many followed him, and he cured them all.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he instructed them, lest they make him known.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah was fulfilled, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> "Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved in whom my soul is well pleased. I will place my Spirit over him, and he shall announce judgment to the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He shall not contend, nor cry out, neither shall anyone hear his voice in the streets.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He shall not crush the bruised reed, and he shall not extinguish the smoking wick, until he sends forth judgment unto victory.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the Gentiles shall hope in his name."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then one who had a demon, who was blind and mute, was brought to him. And he cured him, so that he spoke and saw.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And all the crowds were stupefied, and they said, "Could this be the son of David?"</p>

<p><a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But the Pharisees, hearing it, said, "This man does not cast out demons, except by Beelzebub, the prince of the demons."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said to them: "Every kingdom divided against itself will become desolate. And every city or house divided against itself will not stand.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> So if Satan casts out Satan, then he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your own sons cast them out? Therefore, they shall be your judges.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has arrived among you.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Or how can anyone enter into the house of a strong man, and plunder his belongings, unless he first restrains the strong man? And then he will plunder his house.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Whoever is not with me, is against me. And whoever does not gather with me, scatters.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For this reason, I say to you: Every sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven men, but blasphemy against the Spirit shall not be forgiven.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And anyone who will have spoken a word against the Son of man shall be forgiven. But whoever will have spoken against the Holy Spirit shall not be forgiven, neither in this age, nor in the future age.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree evil and its fruit evil. For certainly a tree is known by its fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Progeny of vipers, how are you able to speak good things while you are evil? For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> A good man offers good things from a good storehouse. And an evil man offers evil things from an evil storehouse.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But I say to you, that for every idle word which men will have spoken, they shall render an account in the day of judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For by your words shall you be justified, and by your words shall you be condemned."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Then certain ones from the scribes and the Pharisees responded to him, saying, "Teacher, we want to see a sign from you."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And answering, he said to them: "An evil and adulterous generation seeks a sign. But a sign will not be given to it, except the sign of the prophet Jonah.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> For just as Jonah was in the belly of the whale for three days and three nights, so shall the Son of man be in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> The men of Nineveh shall arise in judgment with this generation, and they shall condemn it. For, at the preaching of Jonah, they repented. And behold, there is a greater than Jonah here.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The Queen of the South shall arise in judgment with this generation, and she shall condemn it. For she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And behold, there is a greater than Solomon here.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Now when an unclean spirit departs from a man, he walks through dry places, seeking rest, and he does not find it.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Then he says, 'I will return to my house, from which I departed'. And arriving, he finds it vacant, swept clean, and decorated.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then he goes and takes with him seven other spirits more wicked than himself, and they enter in and live there. And in the end, the man becomes worse than he was at first. So, too, shall it be with this most wicked generation."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> While he was still speaking to the crowds, behold, his mother and his brothers were standing outside, seeking to speak with him.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And someone said to him: "Behold, your mother and your brothers are standing outside, seeking you."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> But responding to the one speaking to him, he said, "Which one is my mother, and who are my brothers?"</p>

<p><a id="c12_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And extending his hand to his disciples, he said: "Behold: my mother and my brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> For anyone who does the will of my Father, who is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother."</p>

</body>
</html>