<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Pharisees and Sadducees approached him to test him, and they asked him to show them a sign from heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But he responded by saying to them: "When evening arrives, you say, 'It will be calm, for the sky is red,'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and in the morning, 'Today there will be a storm, for the sky is red and gloomy.' So then, you know how to judge the appearance of the sky, but you are unable to know the signs of the times?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> An evil and adulterous generation seeks a sign. And a sign shall not be given to it, except the sign of the prophet Jonah." And leaving them behind, he went away.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when his disciples went across the sea, they forgot to bring bread.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he said to them, "Consider and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But they were thinking within themselves, saying, "It is because we have not brought bread."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then Jesus, knowing this, said: "Why do you consider within yourselves, O little in faith, that it is because you have no bread?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Do you not yet understand, nor remember, the five loaves among the five thousand men, and how many containers you took up?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Or the seven loaves among the four thousand men, and how many baskets you took up?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Why do you not understand that it was not because of bread that I said to you: Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees?"</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then they understood that he was not saying that they should beware of the leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and the Sadducees.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then Jesus went into parts of Caesarea Philippi. And he questioned his disciples, saying, "Who do men say that the Son of man is?"</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they said, "Some say John the Baptist, and others say Elijah, still others say Jeremiah or one of the prophets."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Jesus said to them, "But who do you say that I am?"</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Simon Peter responded by saying, "You are the Christ, the Son of the living God."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And in response, Jesus said to him: "Blessed are you, Simon son of Jonah. For flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father, who is in heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And I say to you, that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my Church, and the gates of Hell shall not prevail against it.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. And whatever you shall bind on earth shall be bound, even in heaven. And whatever you shall release on earth shall be released, even in heaven."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then he instructed his disciples that they should tell no one that he is Jesus the Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> From that time, Jesus began to reveal to his disciples that it was necessary for him to go to Jerusalem, and to suffer much from the elders and the scribes and the leaders of the priests, and to be killed, and to rise again on the third day.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Peter, taking him aside, began to rebuke him, saying, "Lord, may it be far from you; this shall not happen to you."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And turning away, Jesus said to Peter: "Get behind me, Satan; you are an obstacle to me. For you are not behaving according to what is of God, but according to what is of men."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then Jesus said to his disciples: "If anyone is willing to come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For whoever would save his life, will lose it. But whoever will have lost his life for my sake, shall find it.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For how does it benefit a man, if he gains the whole world, yet truly suffers damage to his soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For the Son of man will arrive in the glory of his Father, with his Angels. And then he will repay each one according to his works.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Amen I say to you, there are some among those standing here, who shall not taste death, until they see the Son of man arriving in his reign."</p>

</body>
</html>