<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the desert, in order to be tempted by the devil.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when he had fasted for forty days and forty nights, afterwards he was hungry.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And approaching, the tempter said to him, "If you are the Son of God, tell these stones to become bread."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And in response he said, "It has been written: 'Not by bread alone shall man live, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God.' "</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then the devil took him up, into the holy city, and set him on the pinnacle of the temple,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and said to him: "If you are the Son of God, cast yourself down. For it has been written: 'For he has given charge of you to his angels, and they shall take you into their hands, lest perhaps you may hurt your foot against a stone.' "</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus said to him, "Again, it has been written: 'You shall not tempt the Lord your God.' "</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Again, the devil took him up, onto a very high mountain, and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and said to him, "All these things I will give to you, if you will fall down and adore me."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Jesus said to him: "Go away, Satan. For it has been written: 'You shall adore the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve.' "</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then the devil left him. And behold, Angels approached and ministered to him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when Jesus had heard that John had been handed over, he withdrew into Galilee.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And leaving behind the city of Nazareth, he went and lived in Capernaum, near the sea, at the borders of Zebulun and of Naphtali,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> in order to fulfill what was said through the prophet Isaiah:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> "Land of Zebulun and land of Naphtali, the way of the sea across the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A people who were sitting in darkness have seen a great light. And unto those sitting in the region of the shadow of death, a light has risen."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> From that time, Jesus began to preach, and to say: "Repent. For the kingdom of heaven has drawn near."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Jesus, walking near the Sea of Galilee, saw two brothers, Simon who is called Peter, and his brother Andrew, casting a net into the sea (for they were fishermen).</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said to them: "Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And at once, leaving behind their nets, they followed him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And continuing on from there, he saw another two brothers, James of Zebedee, and his brother John, in a ship with their father Zebedee, repairing their nets. And he called them.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And immediately, leaving their nets and their father behind, they followed him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jesus traveled throughout all of Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the Gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every infirmity among the people.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And reports of him went out to all of Syria, and they brought to him all those who had maladies, those who were in the grasp of various sicknesses and torments, and those who were in the hold of demons, and the mentally ill, and paralytics. And he cured them.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And a great crowd followed him from Galilee, and from the Ten Cities, and from Jerusalem, and from Judea, and from across the Jordan.</p>

</body>
</html>