<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And again, he began to teach by the sea. And a great crowd was gathered to him, so much so that, climbing into a boat, he was seated on the sea. And the entire crowd was on the land along the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he taught them many things in parables, and he said to them, in his doctrine:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> "Listen. Behold, the sower went out to sow.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And while he was sowing, some fell along the way, and the birds of the air came and ate it.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yet truly, others fell upon stony ground, where it did not have much soil. And it rose up quickly, because it had no depth of soil.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when the sun was risen, it was scorched. And because it had no root, it withered away.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And some fell among thorns. And the thorns grew up and suffocated it, and it did not produce fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And some fell on good soil. And it brought forth fruit that grew up, and increased, and yielded: some thirty, some sixty, and some one hundred."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said, "Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And when he was alone, the twelve, who were with him, questioned him about the parable.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said to them: "To you, it has been given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God. But to those who are outside, everything is presented in parables:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> 'so that, seeing, they may see, and not perceive; and hearing, they may hear, and not understand; lest at any time they may be converted, and their sins would be forgiven them.' "</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he said to them: "Do you not understand this parable? And so, how will you understand all the parables?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He who sows, sows the word.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now there are those who are along the way, where the word is sown. And when they have heard it, Satan quickly comes and takes away the word, which was sown in their hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And similarly, there are those who were sown upon stony ground. These, when they have heard the word, immediately accept it with gladness.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But they have no root in themselves, and so they are for a limited time. And when next tribulation and persecution arises because of the word, they quickly fall away.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And there are others who are sown among thorns. These are those who hear the word,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> but worldly tasks, and the deception of riches, and desires about other things enter in and suffocate the word, and it is effectively without fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And there are those who are sown upon good soil, who hear the word and accept it; and these bear fruit: some thirty, some sixty, and some one hundred."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he said to them: "Would someone enter with a lamp in order to place it under a basket or under a bed? Would it not be placed upon a lampstand?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For there is nothing hidden that will not be revealed. Neither was anything done in secret, except that it may be made public.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he said to them: "Consider what you hear. With whatever measure you have measured out, it shall be measured back to you, and more shall be added to you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For whoever has, to him it shall be given. And whoever has not, from him even what he has shall be taken away."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he said: "The kingdom of God is like this: it is as if a man were to cast seed on the land.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he sleeps and he arises, night and day. And the seed germinates and grows, though he does not know it.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For the earth bears fruit readily: first the plant, then the ear, next the full grain in the ear.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And when the fruit has been produced, immediately he sends out the sickle, because the harvest has arrived."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he said: "To what should we compare the kingdom of God? Or to what parable should we compare it?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> It is like a grain of mustard seed which, when it has been sown in the earth, is less than all the seeds which are in the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And when it is sown, it grows up and becomes greater than all the plants, and it produces great branches, so much so that the birds of the air are able to live under its shadow."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And with many such parables he spoke the word to them, as much as they were able to hear.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But he did not speak to them without a parable. Yet separately, he explained all things to his disciples.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And on that day, when evening had arrived, he said to them, "Let us cross over."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And dismissing the crowd, they brought him, so that he was in one boat, and other boats were with him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And a great wind storm occurred, and the waves broke over the boat, so that the boat was being filled.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he was in the stern of the boat, sleeping on a pillow. And they woke him and said to him, "Teacher, does it not concern you that we are perishing?"</p>

<p><a id="c4_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And rising up, he rebuked the wind, and he said to the sea: "Silence. Be stilled." And the wind ceased. And a great tranquility occurred.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And he said to them: "Why are you afraid? Do you still lack faith?" And they were struck with a great fear. And they said to one another, "Who do you think this is, that both wind and sea obey him?"</p>

</body>
</html>