<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now the feast of Passover and of Unleavened Bread was two days away. And the leaders of the priests, and the scribes, were seeking a means by which they might deceitfully seize him and kill him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But they said, "Not on the feast day, lest perhaps there may be a tumult among the people."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And when he was in Bethania, in the house of Simon the leper, and was reclining to eat, a woman arrived having an alabaster container of ointment, of precious spikenard. And breaking open the alabaster container, she poured it over his head.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But there were some who became indignant within themselves and who were saying: "What is the reason for this waste of the ointment?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For this ointment could have been sold for more than three hundred denarii and been given to the poor." And they murmured against her.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But Jesus said: "Permit her. What is the reason that you trouble her? She has done a good deed for me.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the poor, you have with you always. And whenever you wish, you are able to do good to them. But you do not have me always.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But she has done what she could. She has arrived in advance to anoint my body for burial.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Amen I say to you, wherever this Gospel shall be preached throughout the entire world, the things she has done also shall be told, in memory of her."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went away, to the leaders of the priests, in order to betray him to them.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they, upon hearing it, were gladdened. And they promised him that they would give him money. And he sought an opportune means by which he might betray him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And on the first day of Unleavened Bread, when they immolate the Passover, the disciples said to him, "Where do you want us to go and prepare for you to eat the Passover?"</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he sent two of his disciples, and he said to them: "Go into the city. And you will meet a man carrying a pitcher of water; follow him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And wherever he will have entered, say to the owner of the house, 'The Teacher says: Where is my dining room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?'</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he will show you a large cenacle, fully furnished. And there, you shall prepare it for us."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And his disciples departed and went into the city. And they found it just as he had told them. And they prepared the Passover.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then, when evening came, he arrived with the twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And while reclining and eating with them at table, Jesus said, "Amen I say to you, that one of you, who eats with me, will betray me."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But they began to be sorrowful and to say to him, one at a time: "Is it I?"</p>

<p><a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he said to them: "It is one of the twelve, who dips his hand with me in the dish.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And indeed, the Son of man goes, just as it has been written of him. But woe to that man by whom the Son of man will be betrayed. It would be better for that man if he had never been born."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And while eating with them, Jesus took bread. And blessing it, he broke it and gave it to them, and he said: "Take. This is my body."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And having taken the chalice, giving thanks, he gave it to them. And they all drank from it.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he said to them: "This is my blood of the new covenant, which shall be shed for many.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Amen I say to you, that I will no longer drink from this fruit of the vine, until that day when I will drink it new in the kingdom of God."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And having sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Jesus said to them: "You will all fall away from me in this night. For it has been written: 'I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.'</p>

<p><a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But after I have risen again, I will go before you to Galilee."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Then Peter said to him, "Even if all will have fallen away from you, yet I will not."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Jesus said to him, "Amen I say to you, that this day, in this night, before the rooster has uttered its voice twice, you will deny me three times."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But he spoke further, "Even if I must die along with you, I will not deny you." And they all spoke similarly also.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they went to a country estate, by the name of Gethsemani. And he said to his disciples, "Sit here, while I pray."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he took Peter, and James, and John with him. And he began to be afraid and wearied.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he said to them: "My soul is sorrowful, even unto death. Remain here and be vigilant."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And when he had proceeded on a little ways, he fell prostrate on the ground. And he prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass away from him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he said: "Abba, Father, all things are possible to you. Take this chalice from me. But let it be, not as I will, but as you will."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And he went and found them sleeping. And he said to Peter: "Simon, are you sleeping? Were you not able to be vigilant for one hour?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Watch and pray, so that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And going away again, he prayed, saying the same words.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And upon returning, he found them sleeping yet again, (for their eyes were heavy) and they did not know how to respond to him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And he arrived for the third time, and he said to them: "Sleep now, and take rest. It is enough. The hour has arrived. Behold, the Son of man will be betrayed into the hands of sinners.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Rise up, let us go. Behold, he who will betray me is near."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And while he was still speaking, Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, arrived, and with him was a large crowd with swords and clubs, sent from the leaders of the priests, and the scribes, and the elders.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Now his betrayer had given them a sign, saying: "He whom I shall kiss, it is he. Take hold of him, and lead him away cautiously."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And when he had arrived, immediately drawing near to him, he said: "Hail, Master!" And he kissed him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> But they laid hands on him and held him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Then a certain one of those standing near, drawing a sword, struck a servant of the high priest and cut off his ear.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And in response, Jesus said to them: "Have you set out to apprehend me, just as if to a robber, with swords and clubs?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Daily, I was with you in the temple teaching, and you did not take hold of me. But in this way, the scriptures are fulfilled."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Then his disciples, leaving him behind, all fled away.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Now a certain young man followed him, having nothing but a fine linen cloth over himself. And they took hold of him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> But he, rejecting the fine linen cloth, escaped from them naked.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And they led Jesus to the high priest. And all the priests and the scribes and the elders came together.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> But Peter followed him from a distance, even into the court of the high priest. And he sat with the servants at the fire and warmed himself.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> Yet truly, the leaders of the priests and the entire council sought testimony against Jesus, so that they might deliver him to death, and they found none.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> For many spoke false testimony against him, but their testimony did not agree.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And certain ones, rising up, bore false witness against him, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c14_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> "For we heard him say, 'I will destroy this temple, made with hands, and within three days I will build another, not made with hands.' "</p>

<p><a id="c14_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> And their testimony did not agree.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> And the high priest, rising up in their midst, questioned Jesus, saying, "Do you have nothing to say in answer to the things that are brought against you by these ones?"</p>

<p><a id="c14_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> But he was silent and gave no answer. Again, the high priest questioned him, and he said to him, "Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed God?"</p>

<p><a id="c14_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> Then Jesus said to him: "I am. And you shall see the Son of man sitting at the right hand of the power of God and arriving with the clouds of heaven."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> Then the high priest, rending his garments, said: "Why do we still require witnesses?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> You have heard the blasphemy. How does it seem to you?" And they all condemned him, as guilty unto death.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face and to strike him with fists, and to say to him, "Prophesy." And the servants struck him with the palms their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> And while Peter was in the court below, one of the maidservants of the high priest arrived.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> And when she had seen Peter warming himself, she stared at him, and she said: "You also were with Jesus of Nazareth."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> But he denied it, saying, "I neither know nor understand what you saying." And he went outside, in front of the court; and a rooster crowed.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> Then again, when a maidservant had seen him, she began to say to the bystanders, "For this is one of them."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> But he denied it again. And after a little while, again those standing near said to Peter: "In truth, you are one of them. For you, too, are a Galilean."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> Then he began to curse and to swear, saying, "For I do not know this man, about whom you are speaking."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> And immediately the rooster crowed again. And Peter remembered the word that Jesus had said to him, "Before the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times." And he began to weep.</p>

</body>
</html>