<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Pharisees and some of the scribes, arriving from Jerusalem, gathered together before him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when they had seen certain ones from his disciples eating bread with common hands, that is, with unwashed hands, they disparaged them.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, do not eat without repeatedly washing their hands, holding to the tradition of the elders.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when returning from the market, unless they wash, they do not eat. And there are many other things which have been handed down to them to observe: the washings of cups, and pitchers, and bronze containers, and beds.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And so the Pharisees and the scribes questioned him: "Why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but they eat bread with common hands?"</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But in response, he said to them: "So well did Isaiah prophesy about you hypocrites, just as it has been written: 'This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And in vain do they worship me, teaching the doctrines and precepts of men.'</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For abandoning the commandment of God, you hold to the tradition of men, to the washing of pitchers and cups. And you do many other things similar to these."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said to them: "You effectively nullify the precept of God, so that you may observe your own tradition.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For Moses said: 'Honor your father and your mother,' and, 'Whoever will have cursed father or mother, let him die a death.'</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But you say, 'If a man will have said to his father or mother: Korban, (which is a gift) whatever is from me will be to your benefit,'</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> then you do not release him to do anything for his father or mother,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> rescinding the word of God through your tradition, which you have handed down. And you do many other similar things in this way."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And again, calling the crowd to him, he said to them: "Listen to me, all of you, and understand.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> There is nothing from outside a man which, by entering into him, is able to defile him. But the things which procede from a man, these are what pollute a man.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Whoever has ears to hear, let him hear."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when he had entered into the house, away from the crowd, his disciples questioned him about the parable.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he said to them: "So, are you also without prudence? Do you not understand that everything entering to a man from outside is not able to pollute him?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For it does not enter into his heart, but into the gut, and it exits into the sewer, purging all foods."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> "But," he said "the things which go out from a man, these pollute a man.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For from within, from the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> thefts, avarice, wickedness, deceitfulness, homosexuality, an evil eye, blasphemy, self-exaltation, foolishness.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> All these evils procede from within and pollute a man."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And rising up, he went from there to the area of Tyre and Sidon. And entering into a house, he intended no one to know about it, but he was not able to remain hidden.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For a woman whose daughter had an unclean spirit, as soon as she heard about him, entered and fell prostrate at his feet.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For the woman was a Gentile, by birth a Syro-Phoenician. And she petitioned him, so that he would cast the demon from her daughter.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he said to her: "First allow the sons to have their fill. For it is not good to take away the bread of the sons and throw it to the dogs."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But she responded by saying to him: "Certainly, Lord. Yet the young dogs also eat, under the table, from the crumbs of the children."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he said to her, "Because of this saying, go; the demon has gone out of your daughter."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And when she had gone to her house, she found the girl lying on the bed; and the demon had gone away.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And again, departing from the borders of Tyre, he went by way of Sidon to the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the area of the Ten Cities.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they brought someone who was deaf and mute to him. And they begged him, so that he would lay his hand upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And taking him away from the crowd, he put his fingers into his ears; and spitting, he touched his tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And gazing up to heaven, he groaned and said to him: "Ephphatha," which is, "Be opened."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And immediately his ears were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was released, and he spoke correctly.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he instructed them not to tell anyone. But as much as he instructed them, so much more did they preach about it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And so much more did they wonder, saying: "He has done all things well. He has caused both the deaf to hear and the mute to speak."</p>

</body>
</html>