<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when the Sabbath had passed, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought aromatic spices, so that when they arrived they could anoint Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And very early in the morning, on the first of the Sabbaths, they went to the tomb, the sun having now risen.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they said to one another, "Who will roll back the stone for us, away from the entrance of the tomb?"</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And looking, they saw that the stone was rolled back. For certainly it was very large.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And upon entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, covered with a white robe, and they were astonished.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he said to them, "Do not become frightened. You are seeking Jesus of Nazareth, the Crucified One. He has risen. He is not here. Behold, the place where they laid him.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But go, tell his disciples and Peter that he is going before you into Galilee. There you shall see him, just as he told you."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But they, going out, fled from the tomb. For trembling and fear had overwhelmed them. And they said nothing to anyone. For they were afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But he, rising early on the first Sabbath, appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> She went and announced it to those who had been with him, while they were mourning and weeping.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they, upon hearing that he was alive and that he had been seen by her, did not believe it.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But after these events, he was shown in another likeness to two of them walking, as they were going out to the countryside.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they, returning, reported it to the others; neither did they believe them.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Finally, he appeared to the eleven, as they sat at table. And he rebuked them for their incredulity and hardness of heart, because they did not believe those who had seen that he had risen again.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he said to them: "Go forth to the whole world and preach the Gospel to every creature.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Whoever will have believed and been baptized will be saved. Yet truly, whoever will not have believed will be condemned.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now these signs will accompany those who believe. In my name, they shall cast out demons. They will speak in new languages.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They will take up serpents, and, if they drink anything deadly, it will not harm them. They shall lay their hands upon the sick, and they will be well."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And indeed, the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven, and he sits at the right hand of God.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then they, setting out, preached everywhere, with the Lord cooperating and confirming the word by the accompanying signs.</p>

</body>
</html>