<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And immediately in the morning, after the leaders of the priests had taken counsel with the elders and the scribes and the entire council, binding Jesus, they led him away and delivered him to Pilate.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Pilate questioned him, "You are the king of the Jews?" But in response, he said to him, "You are saying it."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the leaders of the priests accused him in many things.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then Pilate again questioned him, saying: "Do you not have any response? See how greatly they accuse you."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But Jesus continued to give no response, so that Pilate wondered.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now on the feast day, he was accustomed to release to them one of the prisoners, whomever they requested.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But there was one called Barabbas, who had committed murder in the sedition, who was confined with those of the sedition.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when the crowd had ascended, they began to petition him to do as he always did for them.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But Pilate answered them and said, "Do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews?"</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he knew that it was out of envy that the leaders of the priests had betrayed him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then the chief priests incited the crowd, so that he would release Barabbas to them instead.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But Pilate, responding again, said to them: "Then what do you want me to do with the king of the Jews?"</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But again they cried out, "Crucify him."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yet truly, Pilate said to them: "Why? What evil has he done?" But they cried out all the more, "Crucify him."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then Pilate, wishing to satisfy the people, released Barabbas to them, and he delivered Jesus, having severely scourged him, to be crucified.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then the soldiers led him away to the court of the praetorium. And they called together the entire cohort.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they clothed him with purple. And platting a crown of thorns, they placed it on him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they began to salute him: "Hail, king of the Jews."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they struck his head with a reed, and they spit on him. And kneeling down, they reverenced him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And after they had mocked him, they stripped him of the purple, and they clothed him in his own garments. And they led him away, so that they might crucify him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they compelled a certain passerby, Simon the Cyrenian, who was arriving from the countryside, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to take up his cross.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they led him through to the place called Golgotha, which means, 'the Place of Calvary.'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they gave him wine with myrrh to drink. But he did not accept it.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And while crucifying him, they divided his garments, casting lots over them, to see who would take what.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now it was the third hour. And they crucified him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the title of his case was written as: THE KING OF THE JEWS.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And with him they crucified two robbers: one at his right, and the other at his left.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the scripture was fulfilled, which says: "And with the iniquitous he was reputed."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And the passersby blasphemed him, shaking their heads and saying, "Ah, you who would destroy the temple of God, and in three days rebuild it,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> save yourself by descending from the cross."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And similarly the leaders of the priests, mocking him with the scribes, said to one another: "He saved others. He is not able to save himself.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Let the Christ, the king of Israel, descend now from the cross, so that we may see and believe." Those who were crucified with him also insulted him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And when the sixth hour arrived, a darkness occurred over the entire earth, until the ninth hour.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, "Eloi, Eloi, lamma sabacthani?" which means, "My God, My God, why have you forsaken me?"</p>

<p><a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And some of those standing near, upon hearing this, said, "Behold, he is calling Elijah."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then one of them, running and filling a sponge with vinegar, and placing it around a reed, gave it to him to drink, saying: "Wait. Let us see if Elijah will come to take him down."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Then Jesus, having emitted a loud cry, expired.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And the veil of the temple was torn in two, from the top to the bottom.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Then the centurion who stood opposite him, seeing that he had expired while crying out in this way, said: "Truly, this man was the Son of God."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Now there were also women watching from a distance, among whom were Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joseph, and Salome,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> (and while he was in Galilee, they followed him and ministered to him) and many other women, who had ascended along with him to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And when evening had now arrived (because it was the Preparation Day, which is before the Sabbath)</p>

<p><a id="c15_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> there arrived Joseph of Arimathea, a noble council member, who himself was also awaiting the kingdom of God. And he boldly entered to Pilate and petitioned for the body of Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> But Pilate wondered if he had already died. And summoning a centurion, he questioned him as to whether he was already dead.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And when he had been informed by the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Then Joseph, having bought a fine linen cloth, and taking him down, wrapped him in the fine linen and laid him in a sepulcher, which was hewn from a rock. And he rolled a stone to the entrance of the tomb.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Now Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joseph observed where he was laid.</p>

</body>
</html>