<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And after six days, Jesus took with him Peter, and James, and John; and he led them separately to a lofty mountain alone; and he was transfigured before them.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And his vestments became radiant and exceedingly white like snow, with such a brilliance as no fuller on earth is able to achieve.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And there appeared to them Elijah with Moses; and they were speaking with Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And in response, Peter said to Jesus: "Master, it is good for us to be here. And so let us make three tabernacles, one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For he did not know what he was saying. For they were overwhelmed by fear.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And there was a cloud overshadowing them. And a voice came from the cloud, saying: "This is my most beloved Son. Listen to him."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And immediately, looking around, they no longer saw anyone, except Jesus alone with them.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And as they were descending from the mountain, he instructed them not to relate to anyone what they had seen, until after the Son of man will have risen again from the dead.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they kept the word to themselves, arguing about what "after he will have risen from the dead" might mean.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they questioned him, saying: "Then why do the Pharisees and the scribes say that Elijah must arrive first?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And in response, he said to them: "Elijah, when he will arrive first, shall restore all things. And in the manner that it has been written about the Son of man, so must he suffer many things and be condemned.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But I say to you, that Elijah also has arrived, (and they have done to him whatever they wanted) just as it has been written about him."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And approaching his disciples, he saw a great crowd surrounding them, and the scribes were arguing with them.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And soon all the people, seeing Jesus, were astonished and struck with fear, and hurrying to him, they greeted him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he questioned them, "What are you arguing about among yourselves?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And one from the crowd responded by saying: "Teacher, I have brought to you my son, who has a mute spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And whenever it takes hold of him, it throws him down, and he foams and gnashes with his teeth, and he becomes unconscious. And I asked your disciples to cast him out, and they could not."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And answering them, he said: "O unbelieving generation, how long must I be with you? How long shall I endure you? Bring him to me."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they brought him. And when he had seen him, immediately the spirit disturbed him. And having been thrown to the ground, he rolled around foaming.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he questioned his father, "How long has this been happening to him?" But he said: "From infancy.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And often it casts him into fire or into water, in order to destroy him. But if you are able to do anything, help us and take pity on us."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But Jesus said to him, "If you are able to believe: all things are possible to one who believes."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And immediately the father of the boy, crying out with tears, said: "I do believe, Lord. Help my unbelief."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And when Jesus saw the crowd rushing together, he admonished the unclean spirit, saying to him, "Deaf and mute spirit, I command you, leave him; and do not enter into him anymore."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And crying out, and convulsing him greatly, he departed from him. And he became like one who is dead, so much so that many said, "He is dead."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But Jesus, taking him by the hand, lifted him up. And he arose.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And when he had entered into the house, his disciples questioned him privately, "Why were we unable to cast him out?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he said to them, "This kind is able to be expelled by nothing other than prayer and fasting."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And setting out from there, they passed through Galilee. And he intended that no one know about it.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then he taught his disciples, and he said to them, "For the Son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and having been killed, on the third day he will rise again."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But they did not understand the word. And they were afraid to question him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they went to Capernaum. And when they were in the house, he questioned them, "What did you discuss on the way?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But they were silent. For indeed, on the way, they had disputed among themselves as to which of them was greater.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And sitting down, he called the twelve, and he said to them, "If anyone wants to be first, he shall be the last of all and the minister of all."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And taking a child, he set him in their midst. And when he had embraced him, he said to them:</p>

<p><a id="c9_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> "Whoever receives one such child in my name, receives me. And whoever receives me, receives not me, but him who sent me."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> John responded to him by saying, "Teacher, we saw someone casting out demons in your name; he does not follow us, and so we prohibited him."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But Jesus said: "Do not prohibit him. For there is no one who can act with virtue in my name and soon speak evil about me.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> For whoever is not against you is for you.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> For whoever, in my name, will give you a cup of water to drink, because you belong to Christ: Amen I say to you, he shall not lose his reward.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And whoever will have scandalized one of these little ones who believe in me: it would be better for him if a great millstone were placed around his neck and he were thrown into the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off: it is better for you to enter into life disabled, than having two hands to go into Hell, into the unquenchable fire,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> where their worm does not die, and the fire is not extinguished.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> But if your foot causes you to sin, chop it off: it is better for you to enter into eternal life lame, than having two feet to be cast into the Hell of unquenchable fire,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> where their worm does not die, and the fire is not extinguished.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> But if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out: it is better for you to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into the Hell of fire,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> where their worm does not die, and the fire is not extinguished.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> For all shall be salted with fire, and every victim shall be salted with salt.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Salt is good: but if the salt has become bland, with what will you season it? Have salt in yourselves, and have peace among yourselves."</p>

</body>
</html>