<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The beginning of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As it has been written by the prophet Isaiah: "Behold, I send my Angel before your face, who shall prepare your way before you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The voice of one crying out in the desert: Prepare the way of the Lord; make straight his paths."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> John was in the desert, baptizing and preaching a baptism of repentance, as a remission of sins.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And there went out to him all the region of Judea and all those of Jerusalem, and they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And John was clothed with camel's hair and with a leather belt around his waist. And he ate locusts and wild honey.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he preached, saying: "A stronger one comes after me. I am not worthy to reach down and loosen the laces of his shoes.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I have baptized you with water. Yet truly, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And it happened that, in those days, Jesus arrived from Nazareth of Galilee. And he was baptized by John in the Jordan.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And immediately, upon ascending from the water, he saw the heavens opened and the Spirit, like a dove, descending, and remaining with him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And there was a voice from heaven: "You are my beloved Son; in you I am well pleased."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And immediately the Spirit prompted him into the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he was in the desert for forty days and forty nights. And he was tempted by Satan. And he was with the wild animals, and the Angels ministered to him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then, after John was handed over, Jesus went into Galilee, preaching the Gospel of the kingdom of God,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and saying: "For the time has been fulfilled and the kingdom of God has drawn near. Repent and believe in the Gospel."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And passing by the shore of the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and his brother Andrew, casting nets into the sea, for they were fishermen.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jesus said to them, "Come after me, and I will make you fishers of men."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And at once abandoning their nets, they followed him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And continuing on a little ways from there, he saw James of Zebedee and his brother John, and they were mending their nets in a boat.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And immediately he called them. And leaving behind their father Zebedee in the boat with his hired hands, they followed him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they entered into Capernaum. And entering into the synagogue promptly on the Sabbaths, he taught them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they were astonished over his doctrine. For he was teaching them as one who has authority, and not like the scribes.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And in their synagogue, there was a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> saying: "What are we to you, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are: the Holy One of God."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Jesus admonished him, saying, "Be silent, and depart from the man."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying out with a loud voice, departed from him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And they were all so amazed that they inquired among themselves, saying: "What is this? And what is this new doctrine? For with authority he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And his fame went out quickly, throughout the entire region of Galilee.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And soon after departing from the synagogue, they went into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But the mother-in-law of Simon lay ill with a fever. And at once they told him about her.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And drawing near to her, he raised her up, taking her by the hand. And immediately the fever left her, and she ministered to them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then, when evening arrived, after the sun had set, they brought to him all who had maladies and those who had demons.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the entire city was gathered together at the door.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he healed many who were troubled with various illnesses. And he cast out many demons, but he would not permit them to speak, because they knew him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And rising up very early, departing, he went out to a deserted place, and there he prayed.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And Simon, and those who were with him, followed after him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And when they had found him, they said to him, "For everyone is seeking you."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he said to them: "Let us go into the neighboring towns and cities, so that I may preach there also. Indeed, it was for this reason that I came."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And he was preaching in their synagogues and throughout all of Galilee, and casting out demons.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And a leper came to him, begging him. And kneeling down, he said to him, "If you are willing, you are able to cleanse me."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Then Jesus, taking pity on him, reached out his hand. And touching him, he said to him: "I am willing. Be cleansed."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And after he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he admonished him, and he promptly sent him away.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he said to him: "See to it that you tell no one. But go and show yourself to the high priest, and offer for your cleansing that which Moses instructed, as a testimony for them."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> But having departed, he began to preach and to disseminate the word, so that he was no longer able to openly enter a city, but had to remain outside, in deserted places. And they were gathered to him from every direction.</p>

</body>
</html>