<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the entire multitude of them, rising up, led him to Pilate.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then they began to accuse him, saying, "We found this one subverting our nation, and prohibiting giving tribute to Caesar, and saying that he is Christ the king."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Pilate questioned him, saying: "You are the king of the Jews?" But in response, he said: "You are saying it."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then Pilate said to the leaders of the priests and to the crowds, "I find no case against this man."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But they continued more intensely, saying: "He has stirred up the people, teaching throughout all of Judea, beginning from Galilee, even to this place."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But Pilate, upon hearing Galilee, asked if the man were of Galilee.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when he realized that he was under Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him away to Herod, who was himself also at Jerusalem in those days.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then Herod, upon seeing Jesus, was very glad. For he had been wanting to see him for a long time, because he had heard so many things about him, and he was hoping to see some kind of sign wrought by him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then he questioned him with many words. But he gave him no response at all.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the leaders of the priests, and the scribes, stood firm in persistently accusing him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then Herod, with his soldiers, scorned him. And he ridiculed him, clothing him in a white garment. And he sent him back to Pilate.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Herod and Pilate became friends on that day. For previously they were enemies to one another.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Pilate, calling together the leaders of the priests, and the magistrates, and the people,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> said to them: "You have brought before me this man, as one who disturbs the people. And behold, having questioned him before you, I find no case against this man, in those things about which you accuse him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And neither did Herod. For I sent you all to him, and behold, nothing deserving of death was recorded about him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, I will chastise him and release him."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now he was required to release one person for them on the feast day.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But the entire crowd exclaimed together, saying: "Take this one, and release to us Barabbas!"</p>

<p><a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now he had been cast into prison because of a certain sedition that occurred in the city and for murder.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then Pilate spoke to them again, wanting to release Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But they shouted in response, saying: "Crucify him! Crucify him!"</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then he said to them a third time: "Why? What evil has he done? I find no case against him for death. Therefore, I will chastise him and release him."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But they persisted, with loud voices, in demanding that he be crucified. And their voices increased in intensity.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And so Pilate issued a judgment granting their petition.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then he released for them the one who had been cast into prison for murder and sedition, whom they were requesting. Yet truly, Jesus he handed over to their will.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And as they were leading him away, they apprehended a certain one, Simon of Cyrene, as he was returning from the countryside. And they imposed the cross on him to carry after Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then a great crowd of people followed him, with women who were mourning and lamenting him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But Jesus, turning to them, said: "Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep over me. Instead, weep over yourselves and over your children.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For behold, the days will arrive in which they will say, 'Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that have not borne, and the breasts that have not nursed.'</p>

<p><a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then they will begin to say to the mountains, 'Fall over us,' and to the hills, 'Cover us.'</p>

<p><a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For if they do these things with green wood, what will be done with the dry?"</p>

<p><a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Now they also led out two other criminals with him, in order to execute them.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And when they arrived at the place that is called Calvary, they crucified him there, with the robbers, one to the right and the other to the left.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then Jesus said, "Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do." And truly, dividing his garments, they cast lots.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And people were standing near, watching. And the leaders among them derided him, saying: "He saved others. Let him save himself, if this one is the Christ, the elect of God."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And the soldiers also ridiculed him, approaching him and offering him vinegar,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and saying, "If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Now there was also an inscription written over him in letters of Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew: THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And one of those robbers who were hanging blasphemed him, saying, "If you are the Christ, save yourself and us."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> But the other responded by rebuking him, saying: "Do you have no fear of God, since you are under the same condemnation?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And indeed, it is just for us. For we are receiving what our deeds deserve. But truly, this one has done nothing wrong."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And he said to Jesus, "Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And Jesus said to him, "Amen I say to you, this day you shall be with me in Paradise."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Now it was nearly the sixth hour, and a darkness occurred over the entire earth, until the ninth hour.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And the sun was obscured. And the veil of the temple was torn down the middle.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And Jesus, crying out with a loud voice, said: "Father, into your hands I commend my spirit." And upon saying this, he expired.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Now, the centurion, seeing what had happened, glorified God, saying, "Truly, this man was the Just One."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And the entire crowd of those who came together to see this spectacle also saw what had happened, and they returned, striking their breasts.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Now all those who knew him, and the women who had followed him from Galilee, were standing at a distance, watching these things.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And behold, there was a man named Joseph, who was a councilman, a good and just man,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> (for he had not consented to their decision or their actions). He was from Arimathea, a city of Judea. And he was himself also anticipating the kingdom of God.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> This man approached Pilate and petitioned for the body of Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And taking him down, he wrapped him in a fine linen cloth, and he placed him in a tomb hewn from rock, in which no one had ever been placed.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And it was the day of Preparation, and the Sabbath was drawing near.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> Now the women who had come with him from Galilee, by following, saw the tomb and the manner in which his body was placed.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> And upon returning, they prepared aromatic spices and ointments. But on the Sabbath, indeed, they rested, according to the commandment.</p>

</body>
</html>