<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being procurator of Judea, and Herod tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of Ituraea and of the region of Trachonitis, and Lysanias tetrarch of Abilene,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> under the high priests Annas and Caiaphas: the word of the Lord came to John, the son of Zechariah, in the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he went into the entire region of the Jordan, preaching a baptism of repentance for the remission of sins,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> just as it has been written in the book of the sermons of the prophet Isaiah: "The voice of one crying out in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight his paths.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be brought low. And what is crooked shall be made straight. And the rough paths shall be made into level ways.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And all flesh shall see the salvation of God."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, he said to the crowd that went out in order to be baptized by him: "You progeny of vipers! Who told you to flee from the approaching wrath?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> So then, produce fruits worthy of repentance. And do not begin to say, 'We have Abraham as our father.' For I tell you that God has the power to raise up sons to Abraham from these stones.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For even now the axe has been placed at the root of the trees. Therefore, every tree that does not produce good fruit shall be cut down and cast into the fire."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the crowed was questioning him, saying, "What then should we do?"</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But in response, he said to them: "Whoever has two coats, let him give to those who do not have. And whoever has food, let him act similarly."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now the tax collectors also came to be baptized, and they said to him, "Teacher, what should we do?"</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But he said to them, "You should do nothing more than what has been appointed to you."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then the soldiers also questioned him, saying, "And what should we do?" And he said to them: "You should strike no one, and you should not make false accusations. And be content with your pay."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now all were thinking about John in their hearts, and the people were supposing that perhaps he might be the Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> John responded by saying to everyone: "Indeed, I baptize you with water. But there will arrive one stronger than me, the laces of whose shoes I am not worthy to loosen. He will baptize you in the Holy Spirit, and with fire.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His winnowing fan is in his hand. And he will purify his threshing floor. And he will gather the wheat into the barn. But the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Indeed, he also proclaimed many other things, exhorting the people.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But Herod the tetrarch, when he was corrected by him concerning Herodias, his brother's wife, and concerning all the evils that Herod had done,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> added this also, above all else: that he confined John to prison.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now it happened that, when all the people were being baptized, Jesus was baptized; and as he was praying, heaven was opened.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the Holy Spirit, in a corporal appearance like a dove, descended upon him. And a voice came from heaven: "You are my beloved Son. In you, I am well pleased."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jesus himself was beginning to be about thirty years old, being (as it was supposed) the son of Joseph, who was of Heli, who was of Matthat,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> who was of Levi, who was of Melchi, who was of Jannai, who was of Joseph,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> who was of Mattathias, who was of Amos, who was of Nahum, who was of Esli, who was of Naggai,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> who was of Maath, who was of Mattathias, who was of Semein, who was of Josech, who was of Joda,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> who was of Joanan, who was of Rhesa, who was of Zerubbabel, who was of Shealtiel, who was of Neri,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> who was of Melchi, who was of Addi, who was of Cosam, who was of Elmadam, who was of Er,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> who was of Joshua, who was of Eliezer, who was of Jorim, who was of Matthat, who was of Levi,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> who was of Simeon, who was of Judah, who was of Joseph, who was of Jonam, who was of Eliakim,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> who was of Melea, who was of Menna, who was of Mattatha, who was of Nathan, who was of David,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> who was of Jesse, who was of Obed, who was of Boaz, who was of Salmon, who was of Nahshon,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> who was of Amminadab, who was of Aram, who was of Hezron, who was of Perez, who was of Judah,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> who was of Jacob, who was of Isaac, who was of Abraham, who was of Terah, who was of Nahor,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> who was of Serug, who was of Reu, who was of Peleg, who was of Eber, who was of Shelah,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> who was of Cainan, who was of Arphaxad, who was of Shem, who was Of Noah, who was of Lamech,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> who was of Methuselah, who was of Enoch, who was of Jared, who was of Mahalalel, who was of Cainan,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> who was of Enos, who was of Seth, who was of Adam, who was of God.</p>

</body>
</html>