<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then calling together the twelve Apostles, he gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God and to heal the infirm.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said to them: "You should take nothing for the journey, neither staff, nor traveling bag, nor bread, nor money; and you should not have two tunics.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And into whatever house you shall enter, lodge there, and do not move away from there.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And whoever will not have received you, upon departing from that city, shake off even the dust on your feet, as a testimony against them."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And going forth, they traveled around, through the towns, evangelizing and curing everywhere.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now Herod the tetrarch heard about all the things that were being done by him, but he doubted, because it was said</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> by some, "For John has risen from the dead," yet truly, by others, "For Elijah has appeared," and by still others, "For one of the prophets from of old has risen again."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Herod said: "I beheaded John. So then, who is this, about whom I hear such things?" And he sought to see him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And when the Apostles returned, they explained to him all the things that they had done. And taking them with him, he withdrew to a deserted place apart, which belongs to Bethsaida.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But when the crowd had realized this, they followed him. And he received them and spoke to them about the kingdom of God. And those who were in need of cures, he healed.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then the day began to decline. And drawing near, the twelve said to him: "Dismiss the crowds, so that, by going into the surrounding towns and villages, they may separate and find food. For we are here in a deserted place."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But he said to them, "You give them something to eat." And they said, "There is with us no more than five loaves and two fish, unless perhaps we are to go and buy food for this entire multitude."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now there were about five thousand men. So he said to his disciples, "Have them recline to eat in groups of fifty."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they did so. And they caused them all to recline to eat.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then, taking the five loaves and the two fish, he gazed up to heaven, and he blessed and broke and distributed them to his disciples, in order to set them before the crowd.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they all ate and were satisfied. And twelve baskets of fragments were taken up, which were left over from them.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it happened that, when he was praying alone, his disciples also were with him, and he questioned them, saying: "Who do the multitudes say that I am?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But they answered by saying: "John the Baptist. But some say Elijah. Yet truly, others say that one of the prophets from before has risen again."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then he said to them, "But who do you say that I am?" In response, Simon Peter said, "The Christ of God."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But speaking sharply to them, he instructed them not to tell this to anyone,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> saying, "For the Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and the leaders of the priests and the scribes, and be killed, and on the third day rise again."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then he said to everyone: "If anyone is willing to come after me: let him deny himself, and take up his cross every day, and follow me.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For whoever will have saved his life, will lose it. Yet whoever will have lost his life for my sake, will save it.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For how does it benefit a man, if he were to gain the whole world, yet lose himself, or cause himself harm?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For whoever will be ashamed of me and of my words: of him the Son of man will be ashamed, when he will have arrived in his majesty and that of his Father and of the holy Angels.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And yet, I tell you a truth: There are some standing here who shall not taste death, until they see the kingdom of God."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And it happened that, about eight days after these words, he took Peter and James and John, and he ascended onto a mountain, so that he might pray.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And while he was praying, the appearance of his countenance was altered, and his vestment became white and shining.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And behold, two men were talking with him. And these were Moses and Elijah, appearing in majesty.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And they spoke of his departure, which he would accomplish at Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Yet truly, Peter and those who were with him were weighed down by sleep. And becoming alert, they saw his majesty and the two men who were standing with him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And it happened that, as these were departing from him, Peter said to Jesus: "Teacher, it is good for us to be here. And so, let us make three tabernacles: one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah." For he did not know what he was saying.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then, as he was saying these things, a cloud came and overshadowed them. And as these were entering into the cloud, they were afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And a voice came from the cloud, saying: "This is my beloved son. Listen to him."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And while the voice was being uttered, Jesus was found to be alone. And they were silent and told no one, in those days, any of these things, which they had seen.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> But it happened on the following day that, as they were descending from the mountain, a great crowd met him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And behold, a man from the crowd cried out, saying, "Teacher, I beg you, look kindly on my son, for he is my only son.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And behold, a spirit takes hold of him, and he suddenly cries out, and it throws him down and convulses him, so that he foams. And though it tears him apart, it leaves him only with difficulty.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And I asked your disciples to cast him out, and they were unable."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And in response, Jesus said: "O unfaithful and perverse generation! How long will I be with you and endure you? Bring your son here."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And as he was approaching him, the demon threw him down and convulsed him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and he healed the boy, and he restored him to his father.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And all were astonished at the greatness of God. And as everyone was wondering over all that he was doing, he said to his disciples: "You must set these words in your hearts. For it shall be that the Son of man will be delivered into the hands of men."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> But they did not understood this word, and it was concealed from them, so that they did not perceive it. And they were afraid to question him about this word.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Now an idea entered into them, as to which of them was greater.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> But Jesus, perceiving the thoughts of their hearts, took a child and stood him beside him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And he said to them: "Whoever will receive this child in my name, receives me; and whoever receives me, receives him who sent me. For whoever is the lesser among you all, the same is greater."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And responding, John said: "Teacher, we saw a certain one casting out demons in your name. And we prohibited him, for he does not follow with us."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And Jesus said to him: "Do not prohibit him. For whoever is not against you, is for you."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Now it happened that, while the days of his dissipation were being completed, he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And he sent messengers before his face. And going on, they entered into a city of the Samaritans, to prepare for him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And they would not receive him, because his face was going toward Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And when his disciples, James and John, had seen this, they said, "Lord, do you want us to call for fire to descend from heaven and consume them?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And turning, he rebuked them, saying: "Do you not know of whose spirit you are?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> The Son of man came, not to destroy lives, but to save them." And they went into another town.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And it happened that, as they were walking along the way, someone said to him, "I will follow you, wherever you will go."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> Jesus said to him: "Foxes have dens, and the birds of the air have nests. But the Son of man has nowhere to lay his head."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> Then he said to another, "Follow me." But he said, "Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> And Jesus said to him: "Let the dead bury their dead. But you go and announce the kingdom of God."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And another said: "I will follow you, Lord. But permit me first to explain this to those of my house."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> Jesus said to him, "No one who puts his hand to the plow, and then looks back, is fit for the kingdom of God."</p>

</body>
</html>