<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jesus, filled with the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan. And he was urged by the Spirit into the wilderness</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for forty days, and he was tested by the devil. And he ate nothing in those days. And when they were completed, he was hungry.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then the devil said to him, "If you are the Son of God, speak to this stone, so that it may be made into bread."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jesus answered him, "It is written: 'Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.' "</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the devil led him onto a high mountain, and he showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and he said to him: "To you, I will give all this power, and its glory. For they have been handed over to me, and I give them to whomever I wish.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, if you will worship before me, all will be yours."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And in response, Jesus said to him: "It is written: 'You shall worship the Lord your God, and you shall serve him alone.' "</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he brought him to Jerusalem, and he set him on the parapet of the temple, and he said to him: "If you are the Son of God, cast yourself down from here.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For it is written that he has given his Angels charge over you, so that they may guard you,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and so that they may take you into their hands, lest perhaps you may hurt your foot against a stone."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And in response, Jesus said to him, "It is said: 'You shall not tempt the Lord your God.' "</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And when all the temptation was completed, the devil withdrew from him, until a time.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jesus returned, in the power of the Spirit, into Galilee. And his fame spread throughout the entire region.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he taught in their synagogues, and he was magnified by everyone.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he went to Nazareth, where he had been raised. And he entered into the synagogue, according to his custom, on the Sabbath day. And he rose up to read.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the book of the prophet Isaiah was handed to him. And as he unrolled the book, he found the place where it was written:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> "The Spirit of the Lord is upon me; because of this, he has anointed me. He has sent me to evangelize the poor, to heal the contrite of heart,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> to preach forgiveness to captives and sight to the blind, to release the broken into forgiveness, to preach the acceptable year of the Lord and the day of retribution."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when he had rolled up the book, he returned it to the minister, and he sat down. And the eyes of everyone in the synagogue were fixed on him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then he began to say to them, "On this day, this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And everyone gave testimony to him. And they wondered at the words of grace that proceeded from his mouth. And they said, "Is this not the son of Joseph?"</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he said to them: "Certainly, you will recite to me this saying, 'Physician, heal yourself.' The many great things that we have heard were done in Capernaum, do here also in your own country."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then he said: "Amen I say to you, that no prophet is accepted in his own country.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> In truth, I say to you, there were many widows in the days of Elijah in Israel, when the heavens were closed for three years and six months, when a great famine had occurred throughout the entire land.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And to none of these was Elijah sent, except to Zarephath of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And there were many lepers in Israel under the prophet Elisha. And none of these was cleansed, except Naaman the Syrian."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And all those in the synagogue, upon hearing these things, were filled with anger.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they rose up and drove him beyond the city. And they brought him all the way to the edge of the mount, upon which their city had been built, so that they might thrown him down violently.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But passing through their midst, he went away.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he descended to Capernaum, a city of Galilee. And there he taught them on the Sabbaths.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they were astonished at his doctrine, for his word was spoken with authority.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And in the synagogue, there was a man who had an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> saying: "Let us alone. What are we to you, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know you who you are: the Holy One of God."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And Jesus rebuked him, saying, "Be silent and depart from him." And when the demon had thrown him into their midst, he departed from him, and he no longer harmed him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And fear fell over them all. And they discussed this among themselves, saying: "What is this word? For with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits, and they depart."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And his fame spread to every place in the region.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Then Jesus, rising up from the synagogue, entered into the house of Simon. Now Simon's mother-in-law was in the grip of a severe fever. And they petitioned him on her behalf.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And standing over her, he commanded the fever, and it left her. And promptly rising up, she ministered to them.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Then, when the sun had set, all those who had anyone afflicted with various diseases brought them to him. Then, laying his hands on each one of them, he cured them.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Now demons departed from many of them, crying out and saying, "You are the son of God." And rebuking them, he would not permit them to speak. For they knew him to be the Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Then, when it was daytime, going out, he went to a deserted place. And the crowds sought him, and they went all the way to him. And they detained him, so that he would not depart from them.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he said to them, "I must also preach the kingdom of God to other cities, because it was for this reason that I was sent."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee.</p>

</body>
</html>