<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Since, indeed, many have attempted to set in order a narrative of the things that have been completed among us,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> just as they have been handed on to those of us who from the beginning saw the same and were ministers of the word,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> so it seemed good to me also, having diligently followed everything from the beginning, to write to you, in an orderly manner, most excellent Theophilus,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> so that you might know the truthfulness of those words by which you have been instructed.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> There was, in the days of Herod, king of Judea, a certain priest named Zechariah, of the section of Abijah, and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now they were both just before God, progressing in all of the commandments and the justifications of the Lord without blame.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they had no child, because Elizabeth was barren, and they both had become advanced in years.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then it happened that, when he was exercising the priesthood before God, in the order of his section,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> according to the custom of the priesthood, the lot fell so that he would offer incense, entering into the temple of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the entire multitude of the people was praying outside, at the hour of incense.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then there appeared to him an Angel of the Lord, standing at the right of the altar of incense.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And upon seeing him, Zechariah was disturbed, and fear fell over him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But the Angel said to him: "Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth shall bear a son to you. And you shall call his name John.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And there will be joy and exultation for you, and many will rejoice in his nativity.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For he will be great in the sight of the Lord, and he will not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he will convert many of the sons of Israel to the Lord their God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he will go before him with the spirit and power of Elijah, so that he may turn the hearts of the fathers to the sons, and the incredulous to the prudence of the just, so as to prepare for the Lord a completed people."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Zechariah said to the Angel: "How may I know this? For I am elderly, and my wife is advanced in years."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And in response, the Angel said to him: "I am Gabriel, who stands before God, and I have been sent to speak to you, and to proclaim these things to you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And behold, you will be silent and unable to speak, until the day on which these things shall be, because you have not believed my words, which will be fulfilled in their time."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the people were waiting for Zechariah. And they wondered why he was being delayed in the temple.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then, when he came out, he was unable to speak to them. And they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. And he was making signs to them, but he remained mute.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And it happened that, after the days of his office were completed, he went away to his house.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then, after those days, his wife Elizabeth conceived, and she hid herself for five months, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> "For the Lord did this for me, at the time when he decided to take away my reproach among men."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then, in the sixth month, the Angel Gabriel was sent by God, to a city of Galilee named Nazareth,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the name of the virgin was Mary.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And upon entering, the Angel said to her: "Hail, full of grace. The Lord is with you. Blessed are you among women."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And when she had heard this, she was disturbed by his words, and she considered what kind of greeting this might be.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the Angel said to her: "Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found grace with God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Behold, you shall conceive in your womb, and you shall bear a son, and you shall call his name: JESUS.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He will be great, and he will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give him the throne of David his father. And he will reign in the house of Jacob for eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And his kingdom shall have no end."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then Mary said to the Angel, "How shall this be done, since I do not know man?"</p>

<p><a id="c1_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And in response, the Angel said to her: "The Holy Spirit will pass over you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. And because of this also, the Holy One who will be born of you shall be called the Son of God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And behold, your cousin Elizabeth has herself also conceived a son, in her old age. And this is the sixth month for her who is called barren.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For no word will be impossible with God."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Then Mary said: "Behold, I am the handmaid of the Lord. Let it be done to me according to your word." And the Angel departed from her.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And in those days, Mary, rising up, traveled quickly into the hill country, to a city of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And she entered into the house of Zechariah, and she greeted Elizabeth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And it happened that, as Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the infant leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And she cried out with a loud voice and said: "Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the fruit of your womb.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And how does this concern me, so that the mother of my Lord would come to me?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> For behold, as the voice of your greeting came to my ears, the infant in my womb leaped for joy.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And blessed are you who believed, for the things that were spoken to you by the Lord shall be accomplished."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And Mary said: "My soul magnifies the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And my spirit leaps for joy in God my Saviour.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> For he has looked with favor on the humility of his handmaid. For behold, from this time, all generations shall call me blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> For he who is great has done great things for me, and holy is his name.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And his mercy is from generation to generations for those who fear him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> He has accomplished powerful deeds with his arm. He has scattered the arrogant in the intentions of their heart.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> He has deposed the powerful from their seat, and he has exalted the humble.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> He has filled the hungry with good things, and the rich he has sent away empty.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> He has taken up his servant Israel, mindful of his mercy,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> just as he spoke to our fathers: to Abraham and to his offspring forever."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Then Mary stayed with her for about three months. And she returned to her own house.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Now the time for Elizabeth to give birth arrived, and she brought forth a son.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> And her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had magnified his mercy with her, and so they congratulated her.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> And it happened that, on the eighth day, they arrived to circumcise the boy, and they called him by his father's name, Zechariah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> And in response, his mother said: "Not so. Instead, he shall be called John."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And they said to her, "But there is no one among your relatives who is called by that name."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> Then they made signs to his father, as to what he wanted him to be called.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> And requesting a writing tablet, he wrote, saying: "His name is John." And they all wondered.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Then, at once, his mouth was opened, and his tongue loosened, and he spoke, blessing God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> And fear fell upon all of their neighbors. And all these words were made known throughout all the hill country of Judea.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> And all those who heard it stored it up in their heart, saying: "What do you think this boy will be?" And indeed, the hand of the Lord was with him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> And his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit. And he prophesied, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> "Blessed is the Lord God of Israel. For he has visited and has wrought the redemption of his people.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> And he has raised up a horn of salvation for us, in the house of David his servant,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> just as he spoke by the mouth of his holy Prophets, who are from ages past:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> salvation from our enemies, and from the hand of all those who hate us,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> to accomplish mercy with our fathers, and to call to mind his holy testament,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v73"></a><span class="vn">73</span> the oath, which he swore to Abraham, our father, that he would grant to us,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v74"></a><span class="vn">74</span> so that, having been freed from the hand of our enemies, we may serve him without fear,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v75"></a><span class="vn">75</span> in holiness and in justice before him, throughout all our days.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v76"></a><span class="vn">76</span> And you, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High. For you will go before the face of the Lord: to prepare his ways,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v77"></a><span class="vn">77</span> to give knowledge of salvation to his people for the remission of their sins,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v78"></a><span class="vn">78</span> through the heart of the mercy of our God, by which, descending from on high, he has visited us,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v79"></a><span class="vn">79</span> to illuminate those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, and to direct our feet in the way of peace."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v80"></a><span class="vn">80</span> And the child grew, and he was strengthened in spirit. And he was in the wilderness, until the day of his manifestation to Israel.</p>

</body>
</html>