<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now tax collectors and sinners were drawing near to him, so that they might listen to him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, "This one accepts sinners and eats with them."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he told this parable to them, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> "What man among you, who has one hundred sheep, and if he will have lost one of them, would not leave the ninety-nine in the desert and go after the one whom he had lost, until he finds it?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when he has found it, he places it on his shoulders, rejoicing.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And returning home, he calls together his friends and neighbors, saying to them: 'Congratulate me! For I have found my sheep, which had been lost.'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I say to you, that there will be so much more joy in heaven over one sinner repenting, than over the ninety-nine just, who do not need to repent.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Or what woman, having ten drachmas, if she will have lost one drachma, would not light a candle, and sweep the house, and diligently search until she finds it?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying: 'Rejoice with me! For I have found the drachma, which I had lost.'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So I say to you, there will be joy before the Angels of God over even one sinner who is repentant."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said: "A certain man had two sons.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the younger of them said to the father, 'Father, give me the portion of your estate which would go to me.' And he divided the estate between them.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And after not many days, the younger son, gathering it all together, set out on a long journey to a distant region. And there, he dissipated his substance, living in luxury.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And after he had consumed it all, a great famine occurred in that region, and he began to be in need.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he went and attached himself to one of the citizens of that region. And he sent him to his farm, in order to feed the swine.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he wanted to fill his belly with the scraps that the swine ate. But no one would give it to him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And returning to his senses, he said: 'How many hired hands in my father's house have abundant bread, while I perish here in famine!</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I shall rise up and go to my father, and I will say to him: Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I am not worthy to be called your son. Make me one of your hired hands.'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And rising up, he went to his father. But while he was still at a distance, his father saw him, and he was moved with compassion, and running to him, he fell upon his neck and kissed him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the son said to him: 'Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. Now I am not worthy to be called your son.'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But the father said to his servants: 'Quickly! Bring out the best robe, and clothe him with it. And put a ring on his hand and shoes on his feet.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And bring the fatted calf here, and kill it. And let us eat and hold a feast.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For this son of mine was dead, and has revived; he was lost, and is found.' And they began to feast.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But his elder son was in the field. And when he returned and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he called one of the servants, and he questioned him as to what these things meant.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he said to him: 'Your brother has returned, and your father has killed the fatted calf, because he has received him safely.'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then he became indignant, and he was unwilling to enter. Therefore, his father, going out, began to plead with him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And in response, he said to his father: 'Behold, I have been serving you for so many years. And I have never transgressed your commandment. And yet, you have never given me even a young goat, so that I might feast with my friends.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Yet after this son of yours returned, who has devoured his substance with loose women, you have killed the fatted calf for him.'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But he said to him: 'Son, you are with me always, and all that I have is yours.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But it was necessary to feast and to rejoice. For this brother of yours was dead, and has revived; he was lost, and is found.' "</p>

</body>
</html>