<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he said to his disciples: "It is impossible for scandals not to occur. But woe to him through whom they come!</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It would be better for him if a millstone were placed around his neck and he were thrown into the sea, than to lead astray one of these little ones.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Be attentive to yourselves. If your brother has sinned against you, correct him. And if he has repented, forgive him.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And if he has sinned against you seven times a day, and seven times a day has turned back to you, saying, 'I am sorry,' then forgive him."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Apostles said to the Lord, "Increase our faith."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But the Lord said: "If you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you may say to this mulberry tree, 'Be uprooted, and be transplanted into the sea.' And it would obey you.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But which of you, having a servant plowing or feeding cattle, would say to him, as he was returning from the field, 'Come in immediately; sit down to eat,'</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and would not say to him: 'Prepare my dinner; gird yourself and minister to me, while I eat and drink; and after these things, you shall eat and drink?'</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Would he be grateful to that servant, for doing what he commanded him to do?</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I think not. So too, when you have done all these things that have been taught to you, you should say: 'We are useless servants. We have done what we should have done.' "</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And it happened that, while he was traveling to Jerusalem, he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And as he was entering a certain town, ten leprous men met him, and they stood at a distance.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they lifted up their voice, saying, "Jesus, Teacher, take pity on us."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when he saw them, he said, "Go, show yourselves to the priests." And it happened that, as they were going, they were cleansed.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And one of them, when he saw that he was cleansed, returned, magnifying God with a loud voice.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he fell face down before his feet, giving thanks. And this one was a Samaritan.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And in response, Jesus said: "Were not ten made clean? And so where are the nine?</p>

<p><a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Was no one found who would return and give glory to God, except this foreigner?"</p>

<p><a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said to him: "Rise up, go forth. For your faith has saved you."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then he was questioned by the Pharisees: "When does the kingdom of God arrive?" And in response, he said to them: "The kingdom of God arrives unobserved.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And so, they will not say, 'Behold, it is here,' or 'Behold, it is there.' For behold, the kingdom of God is within you."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he said to his disciples: "The time will come when you will desire to see one day of the Son of man, and you will not see it.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they will say to you, 'Behold, he is here,' and 'Behold, he is there.' Do not choose to go out, and do not follow them.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For just as lightning flashes from under heaven and shines to whatever is under heaven, so also will the Son of man be in his day.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And just as it happened in the days of Noah, so also will it be in the days of the Son of man.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They were eating and drinking; they were taking wives and being given in marriage, even until the day that Noah entered the ark. And the flood came and destroyed them all.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> It shall be similar to what happened in the days of Lot. They were eating and drinking; they were buying and selling; they were planting and building.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Then, on the day that Lot departed from Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and it destroyed them all.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> According to these things, so shall it be in the day when the Son of man will be revealed.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> In that hour, whoever will be on the rooftop, with his goods in the house, let him not descend to take them. And whoever will be in the field, similarly, let him not turn back.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Remember Lot's wife.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Whoever has sought to save his life, will lose it; and whoever has lost it, will bring it back to life.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> I say to you, in that night, there will be two in one bed. One will be taken up, and the other will be left behind.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Two will be at the grindstone together. One will be taken up, and the other will be left behind. Two will be in the field. One will be taken up, and the other will be left behind."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Responding, they said to him, "Where, Lord?"</p>

<p><a id="c17_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And he said to them, "Wherever the body will be, in that place also, the eagles shall be gathered together."</p>

</body>
</html>