<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then, on the first Sabbath, at very first light, they went to the tomb, carrying the aromatic spices that they had prepared.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they found the stone rolled back from the tomb.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And upon entering, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And it happened that, while their minds were still confused about this, behold, two men stood beside them, in shining apparel.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then, since they were afraid and were turning their faces toward the ground, these two said to them: "Why do you seek the living with the dead?</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He is not here, for he has risen. Recall how he spoke to you, when he was still in Galilee,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> saying: 'For the Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and on the third day rise again.' "</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they called to mind his words.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And returning from the tomb, they reported all these things to the eleven, and to all the others.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now it was Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary of James, and the other women who were with them, who told these things to the Apostles.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But these words seemed to them a delusion. And so they did not believe them.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But Peter, rising up, ran to the tomb. And stooping down, he saw the linen cloths positioned alone, and he went away wondering to himself about what had happened.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And behold, two of them went out, on the same day, to a town named Emmaus, which was the distance of sixty stadia from Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they spoke to one another about all of these things that had occurred.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it happened that, while they were speculating and questioning within themselves, Jesus himself, drawing near, traveled with them.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But their eyes were restrained, so that they would not recognize him.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said to them, "What are these words, which you are discussing with one another, as you walk and are sad?"</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And one of them, whose name was Cleopas, responded by saying to him, "Are you the only one visiting Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days?"</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said to them, "What things?" And they said, "About Jesus of Nazareth, who was a noble prophet, powerful in works and in words, before God and all the people.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And how our high priests and leaders handed him over to be condemned to death. And they crucified him.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But we were hoping that he would be the Redeemer of Israel. And now, on top of all this, today is the third day since these things have happened.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then, too, certain women from among us terrified us. For before daytime, they were at the tomb,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and, having not found his body, they returned, saying that they had even seen a vision of Angels, who said that he is alive.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And some of us went out to the tomb. And they found it just as the women had said. But truly, they did not find him."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he said to them: "How foolish and reluctant in heart you are, to believe everything that has been spoken by the Prophets!</p>

<p><a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Was not the Christ required to suffer these things, and so enter into his glory?"</p>

<p><a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And beginning from Moses and all the Prophets, he interpreted for them, in all the Scriptures, the things that were about him.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they drew near to the town where they were going. And he conducted himself so as to go on further.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But they were insistent with him, saying, "Remain with us, because it is toward evening and now daylight is declining." And so he entered with them.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And it happened that, while he was at table with them, he took bread, and he blessed and broke it, and he extended it to them.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him. And he vanished from their eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they said to one another, "Was not our heart burning within us, while he was speaking on the way, and when he opened the Scriptures to us?"</p>

<p><a id="c24_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And rising up at that same hour, they returned to Jerusalem. And they found the eleven gathered together, and those who were with them,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> saying: "In truth, the Lord has risen, and he has appeared to Simon."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they explained the things that were done on the way, and how they had recognized him at the breaking of the bread.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then, while they were talking about these things, Jesus stood in their midst, And he said to them: "Peace be with you. It is I. Do not be afraid."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Yet truly, they were very disturbed and terrified, supposing that they saw a spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he said to them: "Why are you disturbed, and why do these thoughts rise up in your hearts?</p>

<p><a id="c24_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> See my hands and feet, that it is I myself. Look and touch. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see that I have."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and feet.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Then, while they were still in disbelief and in wonder out of joy, he said, "Do you have anything here to eat?"</p>

<p><a id="c24_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And they offered him a piece of roasted fish and a honeycomb.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And when he had eaten these in their sight, taking up what was left, he gave it to them.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he said to them: "These are the words that I spoke to you when I was still with you, because all things must be fulfilled which are written in the law of Moses, and in the Prophets, and in the Psalms about me."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then he opened their mind, so that they might understand the Scriptures.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And he said to them: "For so it is written, and so it was necessary, for the Christ to suffer and to rise up from the dead on the third day,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> and, in his name, for repentance and the remission of sins to be preached, among all the nations, beginning at Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And you are witnesses of these things.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And I am sending the Promise of my Father upon you. But you must stay in the city, until such time as you are clothed with power from on high."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Then he led them out as far as Bethania. And lifting up his hands, he blessed them.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And it happened that, while he was blessing them, he withdrew from them, and he was carried up into heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And worshiping, they returned to Jerusalem with great joy.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And they were always in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>