<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now he also told them a parable, that we should continually pray and not cease,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> saying: "There was a certain judge in a certain city, who did not fear God and did not respect man.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But there was a certain widow in that city, and she went to him, saying, 'Vindicate me from my adversary.'</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he refused to do so for a long time. But afterwards, he said within himself: 'Even though I do not fear God, nor respect man,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> yet because this widow is pestering me, I will vindicate her, lest by returning, she may, in the end, wear me out.' "</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then the Lord said: "Listen to what the unjust judge said.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So then, will not God grant the vindication of his elect, who cry out to him day and night? Or will he continue to endure them?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I tell you that he will quickly bring vindication to them. Yet truly, when the Son of man returns, do you think that he will find faith on earth?"</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Now about certain persons who consider themselves to be just, while disdaining others, he told also this parable:</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> "Two men ascended to the temple, in order to pray. One was a Pharisee, and the other was a tax collector.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Standing, the Pharisee prayed within himself in this way: 'O God, I give thanks to you that I am not like the rest of men: robbers, unjust, adulterers, even as this tax collector chooses to be.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I fast twice between Sabbaths. I give tithes from all that I possess.'</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the tax collector, standing at a distance, was not willing to even lift up his eyes to heaven. But he struck his chest, saying: 'O God, be merciful to me, a sinner.'</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I say to you, this one descended to his house justified, but not the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled; and whoever humbles himself will be exalted."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they were bringing little children to him, so that he might touch them. And when the disciples saw this, they rebuked them.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But Jesus, calling them together, said: "Allow the children to come to me, and do not be an obstacle to them. For of such is the kingdom of God.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Amen, I say to you, whoever will not accept the kingdom of God like a child, will not enter into it."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And a certain leader questioned him, saying: "Good teacher, what should I do to possess eternal life?"</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then Jesus said to him: "Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You know the commandments: You shall not kill. You shall not commit adultery. You shall not steal. You shall not give false testimony. Honor your father and mother."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he said, "I have kept all these things from my youth."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And when Jesus heard this, he said to him: "One thing is still lacking for you. Sell all the things that you have, and give to the poor. And then you will have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> When he heard this, he became very sorrowful. For he was very rich.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then Jesus, seeing him brought to sorrow, said: "How difficult it is for those who have money to enter into the kingdom of God!</p>

<p><a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For it is easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle, than for a wealthy man to enter into the kingdom of God."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And those who were listening to this said, "Then who is able to be saved?"</p>

<p><a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He said to them, "Things that are impossible with men are possible with God."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Peter said, "Behold, we have left everything, and we have followed you."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he said to them: "Amen, I say to you, there is no one who has left behind home, or parents, or brothers, or a wife, or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> who will not receive much more in this time, and in the age to come eternal life."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then Jesus took the twelve aside, and he said to them: "Behold, we are ascending to Jerusalem, and everything shall be completed which was written by the prophets about the Son of man.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For he will be handed over to the Gentiles, and he will be mocked and scourged and spit upon.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And after they have scourged him, they will kill him. And on the third day, he will rise again."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But they understood none of these things. For this word was concealed from them, and they did not understand the things that were said.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Now it happened that, as he was approaching Jericho, a certain blind man was sitting beside the way, begging.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And when he heard the multitude passing by, he asked what this was.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they told him that Jesus of Nazareth was passing by.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he cried out, saying, "Jesus, Son of David, take pity on me!"</p>

<p><a id="c18_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And those who were passing by rebuked him, so that he would be silent. Yet truly, he cried out all the more, "Son of David, take pity on me!"</p>

<p><a id="c18_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Then Jesus, standing still, ordered him to be brought to him. And when he had drawn near, he questioned him,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> saying, "What do you want, that I might do for you?" So he said, "Lord, that I may see."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And Jesus said to him: "Look around. Your faith has saved you."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And immediately he saw. And he followed him, magnifying God. And all the people, when they saw this, gave praise to God.</p>

</body>
</html>