<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there were present, at that very time, some who were reporting about the Galileans, whose blood Pilate mixed with their sacrifices.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And responding, he said to them: "Do you think that these Galileans must have sinned more than all other Galileans, because they suffered so much?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> No, I tell you. But unless you repent, you will all perish similarly.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And those eighteen upon whom the tower of Siloam fell and killed them, do you think that they also were greater transgressors than all the men living in Jerusalem?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> No, I tell you. But if you do not repent, you will all perish similarly."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he also told this parable: "A certain man had a fig tree, which was planted in his vineyard. And he came seeking fruit on it, but found none.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then he said to the cultivator of the vineyard: 'Behold, for these three years I came seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I have found none. Therefore, cut it down. For why should it even occupy the land?'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But in response, he said to him: 'Lord, let it be for this year also, during which time I will dig around it and add fertilizer.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And, indeed, it should bear fruit. But if not, in the future, you shall cut it down.' "</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now he was teaching in their synagogue on the Sabbaths.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And behold, there was a woman who had a spirit of infirmity for eighteen years. And she was bent over; and she was unable to look upwards at all.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when Jesus saw her, he called her to himself, and he said to her, "Woman, you are released from your infirmity."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he laid his hands upon her, and immediately she was straightened, and she glorified God.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then, as a result, the ruler of the synagogue became angry that Jesus had cured on the Sabbath, and he said to the crowd: "There are six days on which you ought to work. Therefore, come and be cured on those, and not on the day of the Sabbath."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then the Lord said to him in response: "You hypocrites! Does not each one of you, on the Sabbath, release his ox or donkey from the stall, and lead it to water?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So then, should not this daughter of Abraham, whom Satan has bound for lo these eighteen years, be released from this restraint on the day of the Sabbath?"</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And as he was saying these things, all his adversaries were ashamed. And all the people rejoiced in everything that was being done gloriously by him.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And so he said: "To what is the kingdom of God similar, and to what figure shall I compare it?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took and cast into his garden. And it grew, and it became a great tree, and the birds of the air rested in its branches."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And again, he said: "To what figure shall I compare the kingdom of God?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of fine wheat flour, until it was entirely leavened."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he was traveling through the cities and towns, teaching and making his way to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And someone said to him, "Lord, are they few who are saved?" But he said to them:</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> "Strive to enter through the narrow gate. For many, I tell you, will seek to enter and not be able.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then, when the father of the family will have entered and shut the door, you will begin to stand outside and to knock at the door, saying, 'Lord, open to us.' And in response, he will say to you, 'I do not know where you are from.'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then you will begin to say, 'We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets.'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he will say to you: 'I do not know where you are from. Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity!'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In that place, there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of God, yet you yourselves are expelled outside.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they will arrive from the East, and the West, and the North, and the South; and they will recline at table in the kingdom of God.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And behold, those who are last will be first, and those who are first will be last."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> On the same day, some of the Pharisees approached, saying to him: "Depart, and go away from here. For Herod wishes to kill you."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And he said to them: "Go and tell that fox: 'Behold, I cast out demons and accomplish healings, today and tomorrow. And on the third day I reach the end.'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Yet truly, it is necessary for me to walk today and tomorrow and the following day. For it does not fall to a prophet to perish beyond Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jerusalem, Jerusalem! You kill the prophets, and you stone those who are sent to you. Daily, I wanted to gather together your children, in the manner of a bird with her nest under her wings, but you were not willing!</p>

<p><a id="c13_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Behold, your house will be left desolate for you. But I say to you, that you shall not see me, until it happens that you say: 'Blessed is he who has arrived in the name of the Lord.' "</p>

</body>
</html>