<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it happened that, while he was in a certain place praying, when he ceased, one of his disciples said to him, "Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said to them: "When you are praying, say: Father, may your name be kept holy. May your kingdom come.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Give us this day our daily bread.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And forgive us our sins, since we also forgive all who are indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he said to them: "Which of you will have a friend and will go to him in the middle of the night, and will say to him: 'Friend, lend me three loaves,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> because a friend of mine has arrived from a journey to me, and I do not have anything to set before him.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And from within, he would answer by saying: 'Do not disturb me. The door is closed now, and my children and I are in bed. I cannot get up and give it to you.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yet if he will persevere in knocking, I tell you that, even though he would not get up and give it to him because he is a friend, yet due to his continued insistence, he will get up and give him whatever he needs.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And so I say to you: Ask, and it shall be given to you. Seek, and you shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened to you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For everyone who asks, receives. And whoever seeks, finds. And whoever knocks, it shall be opened to him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So then, who among you, if he asks his father for bread, he would give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, he would give him a serpent, instead of a fish?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Or if he will ask for an egg, he would offer to him a scorpion?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore, if you, being evil, know how to give good things to your sons, how much more will your Father give, from heaven, a spirit of goodness to those who ask him?"</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he was casting out a demon, and the man was mute. But when he had cast out the demon, the mute man spoke, and so the crowds were amazed.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But some of them said, "It is by Beelzebub, the leader of demons, that he casts out demons."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And others, testing him, required a sign from heaven of him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But when he perceived their thoughts, he said to them: "Every kingdom divided against itself will become desolate, and house will fall upon house.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> So then, if Satan is also divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that it is by Beelzebub that I cast out demons.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your own sons cast them out? Therefore, they shall be your judges.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Moreover, if it is by the finger of God that I cast out demons, then certainly the kingdom of God has overtaken you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> When a strong armed man guards his entrance, the things that he possesses are at peace.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But if a stronger one, overwhelming him, has defeated him, he will take away all his weapons, in which he trusted, and he will distribute his spoils.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whoever is not with me, is against me. And whoever does not gather with me, scatters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When an unclean spirit has departed from a man, he walks through waterless places, seeking rest. And not finding any, he says: 'I will return to my house, from which I departed.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And when he has arrived, he finds it swept clean and decorated.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then he goes, and he takes in seven other spirits with him, more wicked than himself, and they enter and live there. And so, the end of that man is made worse the beginning."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And it happened that, when he was saying these things, a certain woman from the crowd, lifting up her voice, said to him, "Blessed is the womb that bore you and the breasts that nursed you."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then he said, "Yes, but moreover: blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Then, as the crowds were quickly gathering, he began to say: "This generation is a wicked generation: it seeks a sign. But no sign will be given to it, except the sign of the prophet Jonah.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For just as Jonah was a sign to the Ninevites, so also will the Son of man be to this generation.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The queen of the South will rise up, at the judgment, with the men of this generation, and she will condemn them. For she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And behold, more than Solomon is here.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The men of Nineveh will rise up, at the judgment, with this generation, and they will condemn it. For at the preaching of Jonah, they repented. And behold, more than Jonah is here.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> No one lights a candle and places it in hiding, nor under a bushel basket, but upon a lampstand, so that those who enter may see the light.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Your eye is the light of your body. If your eye is wholesome, your entire body will be filled with light. But if it is wicked, then even your body will be darkened.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Therefore, take care, lest the light that is within you become darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> So then, if your entire body becomes filled with light, not having any part in darkness, then it will be entirely light, and, like a shining lamp, it will illuminate you."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And as he was speaking, a certain Pharisee asked him to eat with him. And going inside, he sat down to eat.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But the Pharisee began to say, thinking within himself: "Why might it be that he has not washed before eating?"</p>

<p><a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And the Lord said to him: "You Pharisees today clean what is outside the cup and the plate, but what is inside of you is full of plunder and iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Fools! Did not he who made what is outside, indeed also make what is inside?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Yet truly, give what is above as alms, and behold, all things are clean for you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> But woe to you, Pharisees! For you tithe mint and rue and every herb, but you ignore judgment and the charity of God. But these things you ought to have done, without omitting the others.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Woe to you, Pharisees! For you love the first seats in the synagogues, and greetings in the marketplace.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Woe to you! For you are like graves that are not noticeable, so that men walk over them without realizing it."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then one of the experts in the law, in response, said to him, "Teacher, in saying these things, you bring an insult against us as well."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> So he said: "And woe to you experts in the law! For you weigh men down with burdens which they are not able to bear, but you yourselves do not touch the weight with even one of your fingers.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Woe to you, who build the tombs of the prophets, while it is your fathers who killed them!</p>

<p><a id="c11_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Clearly, you are testifying that you consent to the actions of your fathers, because even though they killed them, you build their sepulchers.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Because of this also, the wisdom of God said: I will send to them Prophets and Apostles, and some of these they will kill or persecute,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> so that the blood of all the Prophets, which has been shed since the foundation of the world, may be charged against this generation:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> from the blood of Abel, even to the blood of Zachariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary. So I say to you: it will be required of this generation!</p>

<p><a id="c11_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Woe to you, experts in the law! For you have taken away the key of knowledge. You yourselves do not enter, and those who were entering, you would have prohibited."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Then, while he was saying these things to them, the Pharisees and the experts in the law began to insist strongly that he restrain his mouth about many things.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And waiting to ambush him, they sought something from his mouth that they might seize upon, in order to accuse him.</p>

</body>
</html>