<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then, as great crowds were standing so close that they were stepping on one another, he began to say to his disciples: "Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For there is nothing covered, which will not be revealed, nor anything hidden, which will not be known.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the things that you have spoken in darkness will be declared in the light. And what you have said in the ear in bedrooms will be proclaimed from the housetops.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> So I say to you, my friends: Do not be fearful of those who kill the body, and afterwards have no more that they can do.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But I will reveal to you whom you should fear. Fear him who, after he will have killed, has the power to cast into Hell. So I say to you: Fear him.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Are not five sparrows sold for two small coins? And yet not one of these is forgotten in the sight of God.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But even the very hairs of your head have all been numbered. Therefore, do not be afraid. You are worth more than many sparrows.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But I say to you: Everyone who will have confessed me before men, the Son of man will also confess him before the Angels of God.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But everyone who will have denied me before men, he will be denied before the Angels of God.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And everyone who speaks a word against the Son of man, it will be forgiven of him. But of him who will have blasphemed against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when they will lead you to the synagogues, and to magistrates and authorities, do not choose to be worried about how or what you will answer, or about what you might say.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the Holy Spirit will teach you, in the same hour, what you must say."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And someone from the crowd said to him, "Teacher, tell my brother to share the inheritance with me."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But he said to him, "Man, who has appointed me as judge or arbitrator over you?"</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So he said to them: "Be cautious and wary of all avarice. For a person's life is not found in the abundance of the things that he possesses."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then he spoke to them using a comparison, saying: "The fertile land of a certain wealthy man produced crops.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he thought within himself, saying: 'What should I do? For I have nowhere to gather together my crops.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he said: 'This is what I will do. I will tear down my barns and build larger ones. And into these, I will gather all the things that have been grown for me, as well as my goods.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I will say to my soul: Soul, you have many goods, stored up for many years. Relax, eat, drink, and be cheerful.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But God said to him: 'Foolish one, this very night they require your soul of you. To whom, then, will those things belong, which you have prepared?'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> So it is with him who stores up for himself, and is not wealthy with God."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he said to his disciples: "And so I say to you: Do not choose to be anxious about your life, as to what you may eat, nor about your body, as to what you will wear.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Life is more than food, and the body is more than clothing.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Consider the ravens. For they neither sow nor reap; there is no storehouse or barn for them. And yet God pastures them. How much more are you, compared to them?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But which of you, by thinking, is able to add one cubit to his stature?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Therefore, if you are not capable, in what is so little, why be anxious about the rest?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Consider the lilies, how they grow. They neither work nor weave. But I say to you, not even Solomon, in all his glory, was clothed like one of these.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Therefore, if God so clothes the grass, which is in the field today and thrown into the furnace tomorrow, how much more you, O little in faith?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And so, do not choose to inquire as to what you will eat, or what you will drink. And do not choose to be lifted up on high.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For all these things are sought by the Gentiles of the world. And your Father knows that you have need of these things.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Yet truly, seek first the kingdom of God, and his justice, and all these things shall be added to you.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Do not be afraid, little flock; for it has pleased your Father to give you the kingdom.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Sell what you possess, and give alms. Make for yourselves purses that will not wear out, a treasure that will not fall short, in heaven, where no thief approaches, and no moth corrupts.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Let your waists be girded, and let lamps be burning in your hands.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And let you yourselves be like men awaiting their lord, when he will return from the wedding; so that, when he arrives and knocks, they may open to him promptly.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Blessed are those servants whom the Lord, when he returns, will find being vigilant. Amen I say to you, that he will gird himself and have them sit down to eat, while he, continuing on, will minister to them.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And if he will return in the second watch, or if in the third watch, and if he will find them to be so: then blessed are those servants.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But know this: that if the father of the family knew at what hour the thief would arrive, he would certainly stand watch, and he would not permit his house to be broken into.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> You also must be prepared. For the Son of man will return at an hour that you will not realize."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Then Peter said to him, "Lord, are you telling this parable to us, or also to everyone?"</p>

<p><a id="c12_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> So the Lord said: "Who do you think is the faithful and prudent steward, whom his Lord has appointed over his family, in order to give them their measure of wheat in due time?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Blessed is that servant if, when his Lord will return, he will find him acting in this manner.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Truly I say to you, that he will appoint him over all that he possesses.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> But if that servant will have said in his heart, 'My Lord has made a delay in his return,' and if he has begun to strike the men and women servants, and to eat and drink, and to be inebriated,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> then the Lord of that servant will return on a day which he hoped not, and at an hour which he knew not. And he will separate him, and he will place his portion with that of the unfaithful.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And that servant, who knew the will of his Lord, and who did not prepare and did not act according to his will, will be beaten many times over.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Yet he who did not know, and who acted in a way that deserves a beating, will be beaten fewer times. So then, of all to whom much has been given, much will be required. And of those to whom much has been entrusted, even more will be asked.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> I have come to cast a fire upon the earth. And what should I desire, except that it may be kindled?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And I have a baptism, with which I am to be baptized. And how I am constrained, even until it may be accomplished!</p>

<p><a id="c12_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Do you think that I have come to give peace to the earth? No, I tell you, but division.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> For from this time on, there will be five in one house: divided as three against two, and as two against three.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> A father will be divided against a son, and a son against his father; a mother against a daughter and a daughter against a mother; a mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And he also said to the crowds: "When you see a cloud rising from the setting of the sun, immediately you say, 'A rain cloud is coming.' And so it does.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And when a south wind is blowing, you say, 'It will be hot.' And so it is.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> You hypocrites! You discern the face of the heavens, and of the earth, yet how is it that you do not discern this time?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And why do you not, even among yourselves, judge what is just?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> So, when you are going with your adversary to the ruler, while you are on the way, make an effort to be freed from him, lest perhaps he may lead you to the judge, and the judge may deliver you to the officer, and the officer may cast you into prison.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> I tell you, you will not depart from there, until you have paid the very last coin."</p>

</body>
</html>