<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And looking around, he saw the wealthy putting their donations into the offertory.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then he also saw a certain widow, a pauper, putting in two small brass coins.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said: "Truly, I say to you, that this poor widow has put in more than all the others.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For all these, out of their abundance, have added to the gifts for God. But she, out of what she needed, has put in all that she had to live on."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when some of them were saying, about the temple, that it was adorned with excellent stones and gifts, he said,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> "These things that you see, the days will arrive when there will not be left behind stone upon stone, which is not thrown down."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then they questioned him, saying: "Teacher, when will these things be? And what will be the sign when these things will happen?"</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he said: "Be cautious, lest you be seduced. For many will come in my name, saying: 'For I am he,' and, 'The time has drawn near.' And so, do not choose to go after them.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when you will have heard of battles and seditions, do not be terrified. These things must happen first. But the end is not so soon."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then he said to them: "People will rise up against people, and kingdom against kingdom.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And there will be great earthquakes in various places, and pestilences, and famines, and terrors from heaven; and there will be great signs.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But before all these things, they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, handing you over to synagogues and into custody, dragging you before kings and governors, because of my name.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And this will be an opportunity for you to give testimony.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore, set this in your hearts: that you should not consider in advance how you might respond.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For I will give to you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries will not be able to resist or contradict.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And you will be handed over by your parents, and brothers, and relatives, and friends. And they will bring about the death of some of you.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And you will be hated by all because of my name.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And yet, not a hair of your head will perish.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> By your patience, you shall possess your souls.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then, when you will have seen Jerusalem encircled by an army, know then that its desolation has drawn near.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, and those who are in its midst withdraw, and those who are in the countryside not enter into it.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For these are the days of retribution, so that all things may be fulfilled, which have been written.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then woe to those who are pregnant or nursing in those days. For there will be great distress upon the land and great wrath upon this people.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they will fall by the edge of the sword. And they will be led away as captives into all nations. And Jerusalem will be trampled by the Gentiles, until the times of the nations are fulfilled.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And there will be signs in the sun and the moon and the stars. And there will be, on earth, distress among the Gentiles, out of confusion at the roaring of the sea and of the waves:</p>

<p><a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> men withering away out of fear and out of apprehension over the things that will overwhelm the whole world. For the powers of the heavens will be moved.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And then they will see the Son of man coming on a cloud, with great power and majesty.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But when these things begin to happen, lift up your heads and look around you, because your redemption draws near."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he told them a comparison: "Take notice of the fig tree and of all the trees.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> When presently they produce fruit from themselves, you know that summer is near.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> So you also, when you will have seen these things happen, know that the kingdom of God is near.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Amen I say to you, this lineage shall not pass away, until all these things happen.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Heaven and earth shall pass away. But my words shall not pass away.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But be attentive to yourselves, lest perhaps your hearts may be weighed down by self-indulgence and inebriation and the cares of this life. And then that day may overwhelm you suddenly.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For like a snare it will overwhelm all those who sit upon the face of the entire earth.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And so, be vigilant, praying at all times, so that you may be held worthy to escape from all these things, which are in the future, and to stand before the Son of man."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Now in the daytime, he was teaching in the temple. But truly, departing in the evening, he lodged on the mount that is called Olivet.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And all the people arrived in the morning to listen to him in the temple.</p>

</body>
</html>