<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it happened in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus, so that the whole world would be enrolled.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> This was the first enrollment; it was made by the ruler of Syria, Quirinius.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And all went to be declared, each one to his own city.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then Joseph also ascended from Galilee, from the city of Nazareth, into Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and family of David,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> in order to be declared, with Mary his espoused wife, who was with child.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then it happened that, while they were there, the days were completed, so that she would give birth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And she brought forth her firstborn son. And she wrapped him in swaddling clothes and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them at the inn.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there were shepherds in the same region, being vigilant and keeping watch in the night over their flock.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And behold, an Angel of the Lord stood near them, and the brightness of God shone around them, and they were struck with a great fear.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the Angel said to them: "Do not be afraid. For, behold, I proclaim to you a great joy, which will be for all the people.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For today a Saviour has been born for you in the city of David: he is Christ the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And this will be a sign for you: you will find the infant wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And suddenly there was with the Angel a multitude of the celestial army, praising God and saying,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace to men of good will."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it happened that, when the Angels had departed from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, "Let us cross over to Bethlehem and see this word, which has happened, which the Lord has revealed to us."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they went quickly. And they found Mary and Joseph; and the infant was lying in a manger.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then, upon seeing this, they understood the word that had been spoken to them about this boy.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And all who heard it were amazed by this, and by those things which were told to them by the shepherds.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But Mary kept all these words, pondering them in her heart.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, just as it was told to them.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And after eight days were ended, so that the boy would be circumcised, his name was called JESUS, just as he was called by the Angel before he was conceived in the womb.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And after the days of her purification were fulfilled, according to the law of Moses, they brought him to Jerusalem, in order to present him to the Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> just as it is written in the law of the Lord, "For every male opening the womb shall be called holy to the Lord,"</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and in order to offer a sacrifice, according to what is said in the law of the Lord, "a pair of turtledoves or two young pigeons."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon, and this man was just and God-fearing, awaiting the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Spirit was with him.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he had received an answer from the Holy Spirit: that he would not see his own death before he had seen the Christ of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he went with the Spirit to the temple. And when the child Jesus was brought in by his parents, in order to act on his behalf according to the custom of the law,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> he also took him up, into his arms, and he blessed God and said:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> "Now you may dismiss your servant in peace, O Lord, according to your word.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For my eyes have seen your salvation,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> which you have prepared before the face of all peoples:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> the light of revelation to the nations and the glory of your people Israel."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And his father and mother were wondering over these things, which were spoken about him.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Simeon blessed them, and he said to his mother Mary: "Behold, this one has been set for the ruin and for the resurrection of many in Israel, and as a sign which will be contradicted.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And a sword will pass through your own soul, so that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And there was a prophetess, Anna, a daughter of Phanuel, from the tribe of Asher. She was very advanced in years, and she had lived with her husband for seven years from her virginity.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And then she was a widow, even to her eighty-fourth year. And without departing from the temple, she was a servant to fasting and prayer, night and day.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And entering at the same hour, she confessed to the Lord. And she spoke about him to all who were awaiting the redemption of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And after they had performed all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee, to their city, Nazareth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Now the child grew, and he was strengthened with the fullness of wisdom. And the grace of God was in him.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And his parents went every year to Jerusalem, at the time of the solemnity of Passover.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And when he had become twelve years old, they ascended to Jerusalem, according to the custom of the feast day.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And having completed the days, when they returned, the boy Jesus remained in Jerusalem. And his parents did not realize this.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> But, supposing that he was in the company, they went a day's journey, seeking him among their relatives and acquaintances.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And not finding him, they returned to Jerusalem, seeking him.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And it happened that, after three days, they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, listening to them and questioning them.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> But all who listened to him were astonished over his prudence and his responses.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And upon seeing him, they wondered. And his mother said to him: "Son, why have you acted this way toward us? Behold, your father and I were seeking you in sorrow."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And he said to them: "How is it that you were seeking me? For did you not know that it is necessary for me to be in these things which are of my Father?"</p>

<p><a id="c2_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And they did not understand the word that he spoke to them.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And he descended with them and went to Nazareth. And he was subordinate to them. And his mother kept all these words in her heart.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And Jesus advanced in wisdom, and in age, and in grace, with God and men.</p>

</body>
</html>