<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then, after these things, the Lord also designated another seventy-two. And he sent them in pairs before his face, into every city and place where he was to arrive.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said to them: "Certainly the harvest is great, but the workers are few. Therefore, ask the Lord of the harvest to send workers into his harvest.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Go forth. Behold, I send you out like lambs among wolves.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Do not choose to carry a purse, nor provisions, nor shoes; and you shall greet no one along the way.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Into whatever house you will have entered, first say, 'Peace to this house.'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him. But if not, it will return to you.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And remain in the same house, eating and drinking the things that are with them. For the worker is worthy of his pay. Do not choose to pass from house to house.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And into whatever city you have entered and they have received you, eat what they set before you.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And cure the sick who are in that place, and proclaim to them, 'The kingdom of God has drawn near to you.'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But into whatever city you have entered and they have not received you, going out into its main streets, say:</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> 'Even the dust which clings to us from your city, we wipe away against you. Yet know this: the kingdom of God has drawn near.'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I say to you, that in that day, Sodom will be forgiven more than that city will be.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the miracles that have been wrought in you, had been wrought in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in haircloth and ashes.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yet truly, Tyre and Sidon will be forgiven more in the judgment than you will be.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And as for you, Capernaum, who would be exalted even up to Heaven: you shall be submerged into Hell.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Whoever hears you, hears me. And whoever despises you, despises me. And whoever despises me, despises him who sent me."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then the seventy-two returned with gladness, saying, "Lord, even the demons are subject to us, in your name."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he said to them: "I was watching as Satan fell like lightning from heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, I have given you authority to tread upon serpents and scorpions, and upon all the powers of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yet truly, do not choose to rejoice in this, that the spirits are subject to you; but rejoice that your names are written in heaven."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> In the same hour, he exulted in the Holy Spirit, and he said: "I confess to you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and the prudent, and have revealed them to little ones. It is so, Father, because this way was pleasing before you.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> All things have been delivered to me by my Father. And no one knows who the Son is, except the Father, and who the Father is, except the Son, and those to whom the Son has chosen to reveal him."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And turning to his disciples, he said: "Blessed are the eyes that see what you see.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For I say to you, that many prophets and kings wanted to see the things that you see, and they did not see them, and to hear the things that you hear, and they did not hear them."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And behold, a certain expert in the law rose up, testing him and saying, "Teacher, what must I do to possess eternal life?"</p>

<p><a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But he said to him: "What is written in the law? How do you read it?"</p>

<p><a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> In response, he said: "You shall love the Lord your God from your whole heart, and from your whole soul, and from all your strength, and from all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he said to him: "You have answered correctly. Do this, and you will live."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But since he wanted to justify himself, he said to Jesus, "And who is my neighbor?"</p>

<p><a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then Jesus, taking this up, said: "A certain man descended from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he happened upon robbers, who now also plundered him. And inflicting him with wounds, they went away, leaving him behind, half-alive.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And it happened that a certain priest was descending along the same way. And seeing him, he passed by.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And similarly a Levite, when he was near the place, also saw him, and he passed by.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But a certain Samaritan, being on a journey, came near him. And seeing him, he was moved by mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And approaching him, he bound up his wounds, pouring oil and wine on them. And setting him on his pack animal, he brought him to an inn, and he took care of him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And the next day, he took out two denarii, and he gave them to the proprietor, and he said: 'Take care of him. And whatever extra you will have spent, I will repay to you at my return.'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Which of these three, does it seem to you, was a neighbor to him who fell among the robbers?"</p>

<p><a id="c10_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Then he said, "The one who acted with mercy toward him." And Jesus said to him, "Go, and act similarly."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Now it happened that, while they were traveling, he entered into a certain town. And a certain woman, named Martha, received him into her home.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And she had a sister, named Mary, who, while sitting beside the Lord's feet, was listening to his word.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Now Martha was continually busying herself with serving. And she stood still and said: "Lord, is it not a concern to you that my sister has left me to serve alone? Therefore, speak to her, so that she may help me."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And the Lord responded by saying to her: "Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled over many things.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And yet only one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the best portion, and it shall not be taken away from her."</p>

</body>
</html>