<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinedresser.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Every branch in me that does not bear fruit, he will take away. And each one that does bear fruit, he will cleanse, so that it may bring forth more fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You are clean now, because of the word that I have spoken to you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Abide in me, and I in you. Just as the branch is not able to bear fruit of itself, unless it abides in the vine, so also are you unable, unless you abide in me.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever abides in me, and I in him, bears much fruit. For without me, you are able to do nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If anyone does not abide in me, he will be cast away, like a branch, and he will wither, and they will gather him and cast him into the fire, and he burns.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, then you may ask for whatever you will, and it shall be done for you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In this, my Father is glorified: that you should bring forth very much fruit and become my disciples.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> As the Father has loved me, so I have loved you. Abide in my love.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If you keep my precepts, you shall abide in my love, just as I also have kept my Father's precepts and I abide in his love.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> These things I have spoken to you, so that my joy may be in you, and your joy may be fulfilled.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> This is my precept: that you love one another, just as I have loved you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> No one has a greater love than this: that he lay down his life for his friends.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You are my friends, if you do what I instruct you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will no longer call you servants, for the servant does not know what his Lord is doing. But I have called you friends, because everything whatsoever that I have heard from my Father, I have made known to you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you. And I have appointed you, so that you may go forth and bear fruit, and so that your fruit may last. Then whatever you have asked of the Father in my name, he shall give to you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> This I command you: that you love one another.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If you had been of the world, the world would love what is its own. Yet truly, you are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world; because of this, the world hates you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Remember my saying that I told you: The servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, they will persecute you also. If they have kept my word, they will keep yours also.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But all these things they will do to you because of my name, for they do not know him who sent me.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> If I had not come and had not spoken to them, they would not have sin. But now they have no excuse for their sin.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whoever hates me, hates my Father also.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If I had not accomplished among them works that no other person has accomplished, they would not have sin. But now they have both seen me, and they have hated me and my Father.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But this is so that the word may be fulfilled which was written in their law: 'For they hated me without cause.'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But when the Advocate has arrived, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who proceeds from the Father, he will offer testimony about me.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And you shall offer testimony, because you are with me from the beginning."</p>

</body>
</html>