<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After these things, Jesus traveled across the sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And a great multitude was following him, for they saw the signs that he was accomplishing toward those who were infirm.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore, Jesus went onto a mountain, and he sat down there with his disciples.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now the Passover, the feast day of the Jews, was near.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And so, when Jesus had lifted up his eyes and had seen that a very great multitude came to him, he said to Philip, "From where should we buy bread, so that these may eat?"</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But he said this to test him. For he himself knew what he would do.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Philip answered him, "Two hundred denarii of bread would not be sufficient for each of them to receive even a little."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> One of his disciples, Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, said to him:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> "There is a certain boy here, who has five barley loaves and two fish. But what are these among so many?"</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Jesus said, "Have the men sit down to eat." Now, there was much grass in that place. And so the men, in number about five thousand, sat down to eat.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, Jesus took the bread, and when he had given thanks, he distributed it to those who were sitting down to eat; similarly also, from the fish, as much as they wanted.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then, when they were filled, he said to his disciples, "Gather the fragments that are left over, lest they be lost."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And so they gathered, and they filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which were left over from those who had eaten.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore, those men, when they had seen that Jesus had accomplished a sign, they said, "Truly, this one is the Prophet who is to come into the world."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And so, when he realized that they were going to come and take him away and make him king, Jesus fled back to the mountain, by himself alone.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then, when evening arrived, his disciples descended to the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when they had climbed into a boat, they went across the sea to Capernaum. And darkness had now arrived, and Jesus had not returned to them.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then the sea was stirred up by a great wind that was blowing.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And so, when they had rowed about twenty-five or thirty stadia, they saw Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing near to the boat, and they were afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But he said to them: "It is I. Do not be afraid."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore, they were willing to receive him into the boat. But immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> On the next day, the crowd which was standing across the sea saw that there were no other small boats in that place, except one, and that Jesus had not entered into the boat with his disciples, but that his disciples had departed alone.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Yet truly, other boats came over from Tiberias, next to the place where they had eaten the bread after the Lord gave thanks.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore, when the crowd had seen that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they climbed into the small boats, and they went to Capernaum, seeking Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And when they had found him across the sea, they said to him, "Rabbi, when did you come here?"</p>

<p><a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Jesus answered them and said: "Amen, amen, I say to you, you seek me, not because you have seen signs, but because you have eaten from the bread and were satisfied.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Do not work for food that perishes, but for that which endures to eternal life, which the Son of man will give to you. For God the Father has sealed him."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Therefore, they said to him, "What should we do, so that we may labor in the works of God?"</p>

<p><a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Jesus responded and said to them, "This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he sent."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And so they said to him: "Then what sign will you do, so that we may see it and believe in you? What will you work?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Our fathers ate manna in the desert, just as it has been written, 'He gave them bread from heaven to eat.' "</p>

<p><a id="c6_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Therefore, Jesus said to them: "Amen, amen, I say to you, Moses did not give you bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For the bread of God is he who descends from heaven and gives life to the world."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And so they said to him, "Lord, give us this bread always."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Then Jesus said to them: "I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But I say to you, that even though you have seen me, you do not believe.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> All that the Father gives to me shall come to me. And whoever comes to me, I will not cast out.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> For I descended from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Yet this is the will of the Father who sent me: that I should lose nothing out of all that he has given to me, but that I should raise them up on the last day.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> So then, this is the will of my Father who sent me: that everyone who sees the Son and believes in him may have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Therefore, the Jews murmured about him, because he had said: "I am the living bread, who descended from heaven."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And they said: "Is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? Then how can he say: 'For I descended from heaven?' "</p>

<p><a id="c6_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And so Jesus responded and said to them: "Do not choose to murmur among yourselves.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> No one is able to come to me, unless the Father, who has sent me, has drawn him. And I will raise him up on the last day.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> It has been written in the Prophets: 'And they shall all be taught by God.' Everyone who has listened and learned from the Father comes to me.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Not that anyone has seen the Father, except he who is from God; this one has seen the Father.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Amen, amen, I say to you, whoever believes in me has eternal life.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> I am the bread of life.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Your fathers ate manna in the desert, and they died.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> This is the bread which descends from heaven, so that if anyone will eat from it, he may not die.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> I am the living bread, who descended from heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> If anyone eats from this bread, he shall live in eternity. And the bread that I will give is my flesh, for the life of the world."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Therefore, the Jews debated among themselves, saying, "How can this man give us his flesh to eat?"</p>

<p><a id="c6_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And so, Jesus said to them: "Amen, amen, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of man and drink his blood, you will not have life in you.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> Just as the living Father has sent me and I live because of the Father, so also whoever eats me, the same shall live because of me.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> This is the bread that descends from heaven. It is not like the manna that your fathers ate, for they died. Whoever eats this bread shall live forever."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> He said these things when he was teaching in the synagogue at Capernaum.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> Therefore, many of his disciples, upon hearing this, said: "This saying is difficult," and, "Who is able to listen to it?"</p>

<p><a id="c6_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> But Jesus, knowing within himself that his disciples were murmuring about this, said to them: "Does this offend you?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> Then what if you were to see the Son of man ascending to where he was before?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh does not offer anything of benefit. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> But there are some among you who do not believe." For Jesus knew from the beginning who were unbelieving and which one would betray him.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> And so he said, "For this reason, I said to you that no one is able to come to me, unless it has been given to him by my Father."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> After this, many of his disciples went back, and they no longer walked with him.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> Therefore, Jesus said to the twelve, "Do you also want to go away?"</p>

<p><a id="c6_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> Then Simon Peter answered him: "Lord, to whom would we go? You have the words of eternal life.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> And we have believed, and we recognize that you are the Christ, the Son of God."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> Jesus answered them: "Have I not chosen you twelve? And yet one among you is a devil."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> Now he was speaking about Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. For this one, even though he was one of the twelve, was about to betray him.</p>

</body>
</html>