<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then, after these things, Jesus was walking in Galilee. For he was not willing to walk in Judea, because the Jews were seeking to kill him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now the feast day of the Jews, the Feast of Tabernacles, was near.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And his brothers said to him: "Move away from here and go into Judea, so that your disciples there may also see your works that you do.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Of course, no one does anything in secret, but he himself seeks to be in the public view. Since you do these things, manifest yourself to the world."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For neither did his brothers believe in him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, Jesus said to them: "My time has not yet come; but your time is always at hand.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The world cannot hate you. But it hates me, because I offer testimony about it, that its works are evil.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You may go up to this feast day. But I am not going up to this feast day, because my time has not yet been fulfilled."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When he had said these things, he himself remained in Galilee.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But after his brothers went up, then he also went up to the feast day, not openly, but as if in secret.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, the Jews were seeking him on the feast day, and they were saying, "Where is he?"</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And there was much murmuring in the crowd concerning him. For certain ones were saying, "He is good." But others were saying, "No, for he seduces the crowds."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yet no one was speaking openly about him, out of fear of the Jews.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then, about the middle of the feast, Jesus ascended into the temple, and he was teaching.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the Jews wondered, saying: "How does this one know letters, though he has not been taught?"</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jesus responded to them and said: "My doctrine is not of me, but of him who sent me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If anyone has chosen to do his will, then he will realize, about the doctrine, whether it is from God, or whether I am speaking from myself.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whoever speaks from himself seeks his own glory. But whoever seeks the glory of him who sent him, this one is true, and injustice is not in him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Did not Moses give you the law? And yet not one among you keeps the law!</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Why are you seeking to kill me?" The crowd responded and said: "You must have a demon. Who is seeking to kill you?"</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Jesus responded and said to them: "One work have I done, and you all wonder.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For Moses gave you circumcision, (not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers) and on the Sabbath you circumcise a man.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If a man can receive circumcision on the Sabbath, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, why are you indignant toward me, because I have made a man whole on the Sabbath?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Do not judge according to appearances, but instead judge a just judgment."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore, some of those from Jerusalem said: "Is he not the one whom they are seeking to kill?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And behold, he is speaking openly, and they say nothing to him. Could the leaders have decided that it is true this one is the Christ?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But we know him and where he is from. And when the Christ has arrived, no one will know where he is from."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Therefore, Jesus cried out in the temple, teaching and saying: "You know me, and you also know where I am from. And I have not arrived of myself, but he who sent me is true, and him you do not know.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I know him. For I am from him, and he has sent me."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Therefore, they were seeking to apprehend him, and yet no one laid hands on him, because his hour had not yet come.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But many among the crowd believed in him, and they were saying, "When the Christ arrives, will he perform more signs than this man does?"</p>

<p><a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things about him. And the leaders and the Pharisees sent attendants to apprehend him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Therefore, Jesus said to them: "For a brief time, I am still with you, and then I am going to him who sent me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> You shall seek me, and you will not find me. And where I am, you are not able to go."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And so the Jews said among themselves: "Where is this place to which he will go, such that we will not find him? Will he go to those dispersed among the Gentiles and teach the Gentiles?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> What is this word that he spoke, 'You will seek me and you will not find me; and where I am, you are not able to go?' "</p>

<p><a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Then, on the last great day of the feast, Jesus was standing and crying out, saying: "If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> whoever believes in me, just as Scripture says, 'From his chest shall flow rivers of living water.' "</p>

<p><a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Now he said this about the Spirit, which those who believe in him would soon be receiving. For the Spirit had not yet been given, because Jesus had not yet been glorified.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Therefore, some from that crowd, when they had heard these words of his, were saying, "This one truly is the Prophet."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Others were saying, "He is the Christ." Yet certain ones were saying: "Does the Christ come from Galilee?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Does Scripture not say that the Christ comes from the offspring of David and from Bethlehem, the town where David was?"</p>

<p><a id="c7_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And so there arose a dissension among the multitude because of him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Now certain ones among them wanted to apprehended him, but no one laid hands upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Therefore, the attendants went to the high priests and the Pharisees. And they said to them, "Why have you not brought him?"</p>

<p><a id="c7_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> The attendants responded, "Never has a man spoken like this man."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And so the Pharisees answered them: "Have you also been seduced?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Have any of the leaders believed in him, or any of the Pharisees?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> But this crowd, which does not know the law, they are accursed."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Nicodemus, the one who came to him by night and who was one of them, said to them,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> "Does our law judge a man, unless it has first heard him and has known what he has done?"</p>

<p><a id="c7_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> They responded and said to him: "Are you also a Galilean? Study the Scriptures, and see that a prophet does not arise from Galilee."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And each one returned to his own house.</p>

</body>
</html>