<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "Do not let your heart be troubled. You believe in God. Believe in me also.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In my Father's house, there are many dwelling places. If there were not, I would have told you. For I go to prepare a place for you.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will return again, and then I will take you to myself, so that where I am, you also may be.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And you know where I am going. And you know the way."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thomas said to him, "Lord, we do not know where you are going, so how can we know the way?"</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jesus said to him: "I am the Way, and the Truth, and the Life. No one comes to the Father, except through me.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If you had known me, certainly you would also have known my Father. And from now on, you shall know him, and you have seen him."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Philip said to him, "Lord, reveal the Father to us, and it is enough for us."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jesus said to him: "Have I been with you for so long, and you have not known me? Philip, whoever sees me, also sees the Father. How can you say, 'Reveal the Father to us?'</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me? The words that I am speaking to you, I do not speak from myself. But the Father abiding in me, he does these works.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Do you not believe that I am in the Father and the Father is in me?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Or else, believe because of these same works. Amen, amen, I say to you, whoever believes in me shall also do the works that I do. And greater things than these shall he do, for I go to the Father.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And whatever you shall ask the Father in my name, that I will do, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If you shall ask anything of me in my name, that I will do.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If you love me, keep my commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I will ask the Father, and he will give another Advocate to you, so that he may abide with you for eternity:</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> the Spirit of Truth, whom the world is not able to accept, because it neither perceives him nor knows him. But you shall know him. For he will remain with you, and he will be in you.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will not leave you orphans. I will return to you.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yet a little while and the world will not see me any longer. But you will see me. For I live, and you shall live.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In that day, you shall know that I am in my Father, and you are in me, and I am in you.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Whoever holds to my commandments and keeps them: it is he who loves me. And whoever loves me shall be loved by my Father. And I will love him, and I will manifest myself to him."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Judas, not the Iscariot, said to him: "Lord, how does it happen that you will manifest yourself to us and not to the world?"</p>

<p><a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Jesus responded and said to him: "If anyone loves me, he shall keep my word. And my Father will love him, and we will come to him, and we will make our dwelling place with him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Whoever does not love me, does not keep my words. And the word that you have heard is not of me, but it is of the Father who sent me.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> These things I have spoken to you, while abiding with you.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But the Advocate, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, will teach you all things and will suggest to you everything whatsoever that I have said to you.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Peace I leave for you; my Peace I give to you. Not in the way that the world gives, do I give to you. Do not let your heart be troubled, and let it not fear.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> You have heard that I said to you: I am going away, and I am returning to you. If you loved me, certainly you would be gladdened, because I am going to the Father. For the Father is greater than I.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And now I have told you this, before it happens, so that, when it will happen, you may believe.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I will not now speak at length with you. For the prince of this world is coming, but he does not have anything in me.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Yet this is so that the world may know that I love the Father, and that I am acting according to the commandment that the Father has given to me. Rise up, let us go from here."</p>

</body>
</html>