<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jesus said these things, and then, lifting up his eyes toward heaven, he said: "Father, the hour has arrived: glorify your Son, so that your Son may glorify you,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> just as you have given authority over all flesh to him, so that he may give eternal life to all those whom you have given to him.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And this is eternal life: that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I have glorified you on earth. I have completed the work that you gave me to accomplish.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And now Father, glorify me within yourself, with the glory that I had with you before the world ever was.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have manifested your name to the men whom you have given to me from the world. They were yours, and you gave them to me. And they have kept your word.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now they realize that all the things that you have given me are from you.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For I have given them the words that you gave to me. And they have accepted these words, and they have truly understood that I went forth from you, and they have believed that you sent me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I pray for them. I do not pray for the world, but for those whom you have given to me. For they are yours.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And all that is mine is yours, and all that is yours is mine, and I am glorified in this.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And though I am not in the world, these are in the world, and I am coming to you. Father most holy, preserve them in your name, those whom you have given to me, so that they may be one, even as we are one.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> While I was with them, I preserved them in your name. I have guarded those whom you have given to me, and not one of them is lost, except the son of perdition, so that the Scripture may be fulfilled.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And now I am coming to you. But I am speaking these things in the world, so that they may have the fullness of my joy within themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have given them your word, and the world has hated them. For they are not of the world, just as I, too, am not of the world.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I am not praying that you would take them out of the world, but that you would preserve them from evil.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They are not of the world, just as I also am not of the world.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Sanctify them in truth. Your word is truth.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Just as you have sent me into the world, I also have sent them into the world.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And it is for them that I sanctify myself, so that they, too, may be sanctified in truth.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But I am not praying for them only, but also for those who through their word shall believe in me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> So may they all be one. Just as you, Father, are in me, and I am in you, so also may they be one in us: so that the world may believe that you have sent me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the glory that you have given to me, I have given to them, so that they may be one, just as we also are one.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I am in them, and you are in me. So may they be perfected as one. And may the world know that you have sent me and that you have loved them, just as you have also loved me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Father, I will that where I am, those whom you have given to me may also be with me, so that they may see my glory which you have given to me. For you loved me before the founding of the world.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Father most just, the world has not known you. But I have known you. And these have known that you sent me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And I have made known your name to them, and I will make it known, so that the love in which you have loved me may be in them, and so that I may be in them."</p>

</body>
</html>