<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "Amen, amen, I say to you, he who does not enter through the door into the fold of the sheep, but climbs up by another way, he is a thief and a robber.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But he who enters through the door is the shepherd of the sheep.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> To him the doorkeeper opens, and the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name, and he leads them out.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when he has sent out his sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, because they know his voice.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But they do not follow a stranger; instead they flee from him, because they do not know the voice of strangers."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jesus spoke this proverb to them. But they did not understand what he was saying to them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, Jesus spoke to them again: "Amen, amen, I say to you, that I am the door of the sheep.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All others, as many as have come, are thieves and robbers, and the sheep did not listen to them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I am the door. If anyone has entered through me, he will be saved. And he shall go in and go out, and he shall find pastures.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The thief does not come, except so that he may steal and slaughter and destroy. I have come so that they may have life, and have it more abundantly.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I am the good Shepherd. The good Shepherd gives his life for his sheep.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But the hired hand, and whoever is not a shepherd, to whom the sheep do not belong, he sees the wolf approaching, and he departs from the sheep and flees. And the wolf ravages and scatters the sheep.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the hired hand flees, because he is a hired hand and there is no concern for the sheep within him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I am the good Shepherd, and I know my own, and my own know me,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father. And I lay down my life for my sheep.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I have other sheep that are not of this fold, and I must lead them. They shall hear my voice, and there shall be one sheepfold and one shepherd.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For this reason, the Father loves me: because I lay down my life, so that I may take it up again.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> No one takes it away from me. Instead, I lay it down of my own accord. And I have the power to lay it down. And I have the power to take it up again. This is the commandment that I have received from my Father."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A dissension occurred again among the Jews because of these words.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then many of them were saying: "He has a demon or he is insane. Why do you listen him?"</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Others were saying: "These are not the words of someone who has a demon. How would a demon be able to open the eyes of the blind?"</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Now it was the Feast of the Dedication at Jerusalem, and it was winter.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jesus was walking in the temple, in the portico of Solomon.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And so the Jews surrounded him and said to him: "How long will you hold our souls in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Jesus answered them: "I speak to you, and you do not believe. The works that I do in the name of my Father, these offer testimony about me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But you do not believe, because you are not of my sheep.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> My sheep hear my voice. And I know them, and they follow me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And I give them eternal life, and they shall not perish, for eternity. And no one shall seize them from my hand.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> What my Father gave to me is greater than all, and no one is able to seize from the hand of my Father.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I and the Father are one."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore, the Jews took up stones, in order to stone him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Jesus answered them: "I have shown you many good works from my Father. For which of those works do you stone me?"</p>

<p><a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The Jews answered him: "We do not stone you for a good work, but for blasphemy and because, though you are a man, you make yourself God."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus responded to them: "Is it not written in your law, 'I said: you are gods?'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> If he called those to whom the word of God was given gods, and Scripture cannot be broken,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> why do you say, about him whom the Father has sanctified and sent into the world, 'You have blasphemed,' because I said, 'I am the Son of God?'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> If I do not do the works of my Father, do not believe in me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But if I do them, even if you are not willing to believe in me, believe the works, so that you may know and believe that the Father is in me, and I am in the Father."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Therefore, they sought to apprehend him, but he escaped from their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And he went again across the Jordan, to that place where John first was baptizing. And he lodged there.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And many went out to him. And they were saying: "Indeed, John accomplished no signs.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> But all things whatsoever that John said about this man were true." And many believed in him.</p>

</body>
</html>