<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But Jesus continued on to the Mount of Olives.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And early in the morning, he went again to the temple; and all the people came to him. And sitting down, he taught them.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now the scribes and Pharisees brought forward a woman caught in adultery, and they stood her in front of them.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they said to him: "Teacher, this woman was just now caught in adultery.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And in the law, Moses commanded us to stone such a one. Therefore, what do you say?"</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But they were saying this to test him, so that they might be able to accuse him. Then Jesus bent down and wrote with his finger on the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And then, when they persevered in questioning him, he stood upright and said to them, "Let whoever is without sin among you be the first to cast a stone at her."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And bending down again, he wrote on the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But upon hearing this, they went away, one by one, beginning with the eldest. And Jesus alone remained, with the woman standing in front of him.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Jesus, raising himself up, said to her: "Woman, where are those who accused you? Has no one condemned you?"</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And she said, "No one, Lord." Then Jesus said: "Neither will I condemn you. Go, and now do not choose to sin anymore."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then Jesus spoke to them again, saying: "I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me does not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And so the Pharisees said to him, "You offer testimony about yourself; your testimony is not true."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jesus responded and said to them: "Even though I offer testimony about myself, my testimony is true, for I know where I came from and where I am going.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You judge according to the flesh. I do not judge anyone.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when I do judge, my judgment is true. For I am not alone, but it is I and he who sent me: the Father.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it is written in your law that the testimony of two men is true.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I am one who offers testimony about myself, and the Father who sent me offers testimony about me."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore, they said to him, "Where is your Father?" Jesus answered: "You know neither me, nor my Father. If you did know me, perhaps you would know my Father also."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Jesus spoke these words at the treasury, while teaching in the temple. And no one apprehended him, because his hour had not yet come.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore, Jesus again spoke to them: "I am going, and you shall seek me. And you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you are not able to go."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And so the Jews said, "Is he going to kill himself, for he said: 'Where I am going, you are not able to go?' "</p>

<p><a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he said to them: "You are from below. I am from above. You are of this world. I am not of this world.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore, I said to you, that you will die in your sins. For if you will not believe that I am, you will die in your sin."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And so they said to him, "Who are you?" Jesus said to them: "The Beginning, who is also speaking to you.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I have much to say about you and to judge. But he who sent me is true. And what I have heard from him, this I speak within the world."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And they did not realize that he was calling God his Father.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And so Jesus said to them: "When you will have lifted up the Son of man, then you shall realize that I am, and that I do nothing of myself, but just as the Father has taught me, so do I speak.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he who sent me is with me, and he has not abandoned me alone. For I always do what is pleasing to him."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> As he was speaking these things, many believed in him.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore, Jesus said to those Jews who believed in him: "If you will abide in my word, you will truly be my disciples.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> They answered him: "We are the offspring of Abraham, and we have never been a slave to anyone. How can you say, 'You shall be set free?' "</p>

<p><a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus answered them: "Amen, amen, I say to you, that everyone who commits sin is a slave of sin.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Now the slave does not abide in the house for eternity. Yet the Son does abide in eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Therefore, if the Son has set you free, then you will truly be free.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> I know that you are sons of Abraham. But you are seeking to kill me, because my word has not taken hold in you.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> I speak what I have seen with my Father. And you do what you have seen with your father."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> They responded and said to him, "Abraham is our father." Jesus said to them: "If you are the sons of Abraham, then do the works of Abraham.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> But now you are seeking to kill me, a man who has spoken the truth to you, which I have heard from God. This is not what Abraham did.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> You do the works of your father." Therefore, they said to him: "We were not born out of fornication. We have one father: God."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Then Jesus said to them: "If God were your father, certainly you would love me. For I proceeded and came from God. For I did not come from myself, but he sent me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Why do you not recognize my speech? It is because you are not able to hear my word.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> You are of your father, the devil. And you will carry out the desires of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning. And he did not stand in the truth, because the truth is not in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks it from his own self. For he is a liar, and the father of lies.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> But if I speak the truth, you do not believe me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Which of you can convict me of sin? If I speak the truth to you, why do you not believe me?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Whoever is of God, hears the words of God. For this reason, you do not hear them: because you are not of God."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Therefore, the Jews responded and said to him, "Are we not correct in saying that you are a Samaritan, and that you have a demon?"</p>

<p><a id="c8_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Jesus responded: "I do not have a demon. But I honor my Father, and you have dishonored me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> But I am not seeking my own glory. There is One who seeks and judges.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Amen, amen, I say to you, if anyone will have kept my word, he will not see death for eternity."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Therefore, the Jews said: "Now we know that you have a demon. Abraham is dead, and the Prophets; and yet you say, 'If anyone will have kept my word, he shall not taste death for eternity.'</p>

<p><a id="c8_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Are you greater than our father Abraham, who is dead? And the prophets are dead. So who do you make yourself to be?"</p>

<p><a id="c8_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Jesus responded: "If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me. And you say about him that he is your God.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And yet you have not known him. But I know him. And if I were to say that I do not know him, then I would be like you, a liar. But I know him, and I keep his word.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Abraham, your father, rejoiced that he might see my day; he saw it and was glad."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And so the Jews said to him, "You have not yet reached fifty years, and you have seen Abraham?"</p>

<p><a id="c8_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> Jesus said to them, "Amen, amen, I say to you, before Abraham was made, I am."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> Therefore, they took up stones to cast at him. But Jesus hid himself, and he departed from the temple.</p>

</body>
</html>