<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Before the feast day of the Passover, Jesus knew that the hour was approaching when he would pass from this world to the Father. And since he had always loved his own who were in the world, he loved them unto the end.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when the meal had taken place, when the devil had now put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon, to betray him,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands and that he came from God and was going to God,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> he rose up from the meal, and he set aside his vestments, and when he had received a towel, he wrapped it around himself.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Next he put water into a shallow bowl, and he began to wash the feet of the disciples and to wipe them with the towel with which he was wrapped.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And then he came to Simon Peter. And Peter said to him, "Lord, would you wash my feet?"</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus responded and said to him: "What I am doing, you do not now understand. But you shall understand it afterward."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Peter said to him, "You shall never wash my feet!" Jesus answered him, "If I do not wash you, you will have no place with me."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Simon Peter said to him, "Then Lord, not only my feet, but also my hands and my head!"</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Jesus said to him: "He who is washed need only wash his feet, and then he will be entirely clean. And you are clean, but not all."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he knew which one would betray him. For this reason, he said, "You are not all clean."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And so, after he washed their feet and received his vestments, when he had sat down at table again, he said to them: "Do you know what I have done for you?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You call me Teacher and Lord, and you speak well: for so I am.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore, if I, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash the feet of one another.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For I have given you an example, so that just as I have done for you, so also should you do.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Amen, amen, I say to you, the servant is not greater than his Lord, and the apostle is not greater than he who sent him.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If you understand this, you shall be blessed if you will do it.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I am not speaking about all of you. I know those whom I have chosen. But this is so that the Scripture may be fulfilled, 'He who eats bread with me shall lift up his heel against me.'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I tell you this now, before it happens, so that when it has happened, you may believe that I am.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Amen, amen, I say to you, whoever receives anyone whom I send, receives me. And whoever receives me, receives him who sent me."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> When Jesus had said these things, he was troubled in spirit. And he bore witness by saying: "Amen, amen, I say to you, that one among you shall betray me."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Therefore, the disciples looked around at one another, uncertain about whom he spoke.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And leaning against the bosom of Jesus was one of his disciples, the one whom Jesus loved.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore, Simon Peter motioned to this one and said to him, "Who is it that he is speaking about?"</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And so, leaning against the chest of Jesus, he said to him, "Lord, who is it?"</p>

<p><a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Jesus responded, "It is he to whom I shall extend the dipped bread." And when he had dipped the bread, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, son of Simon.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And after the morsel, Satan entered into him. And Jesus said to him, "What you are going to do, do quickly."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Now none of those sitting at table knew why he had said this to him.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For some were thinking that, because Judas held the purse, that Jesus had told him, "Buy those things which are needed by us for the feast day," or that he might give something to the needy.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Therefore, having accepted the morsel, he went out immediately. And it was night.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then, when he had gone out, Jesus said: "Now the Son of man has been glorified, and God has been glorified in him.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> If God has been glorified in him, then God will also glorify him in himself, and he will glorify him without delay.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Little sons, for a brief while, I am with you. You shall seek me, and just as I said to the Jews, 'Where I am going, you are not able to go,' so also I say to you now.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> I give you a new commandment: Love one another. Just as I have loved you, so also must you love one another.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> By this, all shall recognize that you are my disciples: if you will have love for one another."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Simon Peter said to him, "Lord, where are you going?" Jesus responded: "Where I am going, you are not able to follow me now. But you shall follow afterward."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Peter said to him: "Why am I unable to follow you now? I will lay down my life for you!"</p>

<p><a id="c13_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Jesus answered him: "You will lay down your life for me? Amen, amen, I say to you, the rooster will not crow, until you deny me three times."</p>

</body>
</html>