<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "These things I have spoken to you, so that you would not stumble.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They will put you out of the synagogues. But the hour is coming when everyone who puts you to death will consider that he is offering an excellent service to God.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they will do these things to you because they have not known the Father, nor me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But these things I have spoken to you, so that, when the hour for these things will have arrived, you may remember that I told you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But I did not tell you these things from the beginning, because I was with you. And now I am going to him who sent me. And no one among you has asked me, 'Where are you going?'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But I tell you the truth: it is expedient for you that I am going. For if I do not go, the Advocate will not come to you. But when I will have gone away, I will send him to you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when he has arrived, he will argue against the world, about sin and about justice and about judgment:</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> about sin, indeed, because they have not believed in me;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> about justice, truly, because I am going to the Father, and you will not see me any longer;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> about judgment, then, because the prince of this world has already been judged.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I still have many things to say to you, but you are not able to bear them now.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But when the Spirit of truth has arrived, he will teach the whole truth to you. For he will not be speaking from himself. Instead, whatever he will hear, he will speak. And he will announce to you the things that are to come.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He shall glorify me. For he will receive from what is mine, and he will announce it to you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All things whatsoever that the Father has are mine. For this reason, I said that he will receive from what is mine and that he will announce it to you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A little while, and then you will not see me. And again a little while, and you will see me. For I am going to the Father."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then some of his disciples said to one another: "What is this, that he is saying to us: 'A little while, and you will not see me,' and 'Again a little while, and you will see me,' and, 'For I am going to the Father?' "</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they said: "What is this, that he is saying, 'A little while?' We do not understand what he is saying."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But Jesus realized that they wanted to question him, and so he said to them: "Are you inquiring among yourselves about this, that I said: 'A little while, and you will not see me, and again a little while, and you will see me?'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Amen, amen, I say to you, that you shall mourn and weep, but the world will rejoice. And you shall be greatly saddened, yet your sorrow shall be turned into joy.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> A woman, when she is giving birth, has sorrow, because her hour has arrived. But when she has given birth to the child, then she no longer remembers the difficulties, because of the joy: for a man has been born into the world.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Therefore, you also, indeed, have sorrow now. But I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice. And no one will take away your joy from you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And, in that day, you will not petition me for anything. Amen, amen, I say to you, if you ask the Father for anything in my name, he will give it to you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Until now, you have not requested anything in my name. Ask, and you shall receive, so that your joy may be full.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I have spoken these things to you in proverbs. The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in proverbs; instead, I will announce to you plainly from the Father.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> In that day, you shall ask in my name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father for you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me, and because you have believed that I went forth from God.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I went forth from the Father, and I have come into the world. Next I am leaving the world, and I am going to the Father."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> His disciples said to him: "Behold, now you are speaking plainly and not reciting a proverb.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now we know that you know all things, and that you have no need for anyone to question you. By this, we believe that you went forth from God."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Jesus answered them: "Do you believe now?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Behold, the hour is coming, and it has now arrived, when you will be scattered, each one on his own, and you will leave me behind, alone. And yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> These things I have spoken to you, so that you may have peace in me. In the world, you will have difficulties. But have confidence: I have overcome the world."</p>

</body>
</html>