<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When Jesus had said these things, he departed with his disciples across the Torrent of Kidron, where there was a garden, into which he entered with his disciples.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place, for Jesus had frequently met with his disciples there.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then Judas, when he had received a cohort from both the high priests and the attendants of the Pharisees, approached the place with lanterns and torches and weapons.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And so Jesus, knowing all that was about to happen to him, advanced and said to them, "Who are you seeking?"</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They answered him, "Jesus the Nazarene." Jesus said to them, "I am he." Now Judas, who betrayed him, was also standing with them.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then, when he said to them, "I am he," they moved back and fell to the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then again he questioned them: "Who are you seeking?" And they said, "Jesus the Nazarene."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jesus responded: "I told you that I am he. Therefore, if you are seeking me, permit these others to go away."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> This was so that the word might be fulfilled, which he said, "Of those whom you have given to me, I have not lost any of them."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it, and he struck the servant of the high priest, and he cut off his right ear. Now the name of the servant was Malchus.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, Jesus said to Peter: "Set your sword into the scabbard. Should I not drink the chalice which my Father has given to me?"</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then the cohort, and the tribune, and the attendants of the Jews apprehended Jesus and bound him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they led him away, first to Annas, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was the high priest that year.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now Caiaphas was the one who had given counsel to the Jews that it was expedient for one man to die for the people.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Simon Peter was following Jesus with another disciple. And that disciple was known to the high priest, and so he entered with Jesus into the court of the high priest.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But Peter was standing outside at the entrance. Therefore, the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the woman who was the doorkeeper, and he led in Peter.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore, the woman servant keeping the door said to Peter, "Are you not also among the disciples of this man?" He said, "I am not."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now the servants and attendants were standing before burning coals, for it was cold, and they were warming themselves. And Peter was standing with them also, warming himself.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then the high priest questioned Jesus about his disciples and about his doctrine.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Jesus responded to him: "I have spoken openly to the world. I have always taught in the synagogue and in the temple, where all the Jews meet. And I have said nothing in secret.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Why do you question me? Question those who heard what I said to them. Behold, they know these things that I have said."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then, when he had said this, one the attendants standing nearby struck Jesus, saying: "Is this the way you answer the high priest?"</p>

<p><a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Jesus answered him: "If I have spoken wrongly, offer testimony about the wrong. But if I have spoken correctly, then why do you strike me?"</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Annas sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. Then they said to him, "Are you not also one of his disciples?" He denied it and said, "I am not."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> One of the servants of the high priest (a relative of him whose ear Peter had cut off) said to him, "Did I not see you in the garden with him?"</p>

<p><a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Therefore, again, Peter denied it. And immediately the rooster crowed.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then they led Jesus from Caiaphas into the praetorium. Now it was morning, and so they did not enter into the praetorium, so that they would not be defiled, but might eat the Passover.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Therefore, Pilate went outside to them, and he said, "What accusation are you bringing against this man?"</p>

<p><a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They responded and said to him, "If he were not an evil-doer, we would not have handed him over you."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore, Pilate said to them, "Take him yourselves and judge him according to your own law." Then the Jews said to him, "It is not lawful for us to execute anyone."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> This was so that the word of Jesus would be fulfilled, which he spoke signifying what kind of death he would die.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then Pilate entered the praetorium again, and he called Jesus and said to him, "You are the king of the Jews?"</p>

<p><a id="c18_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus responded, "Are you saying this of yourself, or have others spoken to you about me?"</p>

<p><a id="c18_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Pilate responded: "Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the high priests have handed you over to me. What have you done?"</p>

<p><a id="c18_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Jesus responded: "My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my ministers would certainly strive so that I would not be handed over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not now from here."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And so Pilate said to him, "You are a king, then?" Jesus answered, "You are saying that I am a king. For this I was born, and for this I came into the world: so that I may offer testimony to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Pilate said to him, "What is truth?" And when he had said this, he went out again to the Jews, and he said to them, "I find no case against him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But you have a custom, that I should release someone to you at the Passover. Therefore, do you want me to release to you the king of the Jews?"</p>

<p><a id="c18_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Then they all cried out repeatedly, saying: "Not this one, but Barabbas." Now Barabbas was a robber.</p>

</body>
</html>