<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then on the first Sabbath, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and she saw that the stone had been rolled away from the tomb.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore, she ran and went to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and she said to them, "They have taken the Lord away from the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore, Peter departed with the other disciple, and they went to the tomb.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now they both ran together, but the other disciple ran more quickly, ahead of Peter, and so he arrived at the tomb first.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when he bowed down, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not yet enter.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then Simon Peter arrived, following him, and he entered the tomb, and he saw the linen cloths lying there,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and the separate cloth which had been over his head, not placed with the linen cloths, but in a separate place, wrapped up by itself.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then the other disciple, who had arrived first at the tomb, also entered. And he saw and believed.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For as yet they did not understand the Scripture, that it was necessary for him to rise again from the dead.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then the disciples went away again, each by himself.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But Mary was standing outside the tomb, weeping. Then, while she was weeping, she bowed down and gazed into the tomb.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And she saw two Angels in white, sitting where the body of Jesus had been placed, one at the head, and one at the feet.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They say to her, "Woman, why are you weeping?" She said to them, "Because they have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have placed him."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, but she did not know that it was Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Jesus said to her: "Woman, why are you weeping? Who are you seeking?" Considering that it was the gardener, she said to him, "Sir, if you have moved him, tell me where you have placed him, and I will take him away."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jesus said to her, "Mary!" And turning, she said to him, "Rabboni!" (which means, Teacher).</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Jesus said to her: "Do not touch me. For I have not yet ascended to my Father. But go to my brothers and tell them: 'I am ascending to my Father and to your Father, to my God and to your God.' "</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Mary Magdalene went, announcing to the disciples, "I have seen the Lord, and these are the things that he said to me."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then, when it was late on the same day, on the first of the Sabbaths, and the doors were closed where the disciples were gathered, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in their midst, and he said to them: "Peace to you."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and side. And the disciples were gladdened when they saw the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore, he said to them again: "Peace to you. As the Father has sent me, so I send you."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When he had said this, he breathed on them. And he said to them: "Receive the Holy Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Those whose sins you shall forgive, they are forgiven them, and those whose sins you shall retain, they are retained."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Now Thomas, one of the twelve, who is called the Twin, was not with them when Jesus arrived.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore, the other disciples said to him, "We have seen the Lord." But he said to them, "Unless I will see in his hands the mark of the nails and place my finger into the place of the nails, and place my hand into his side, I will not believe."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And after eight days, again his disciples were within, and Thomas was with them. Jesus arrived, though the doors had been closed, and he stood in their midst and said, "Peace to you."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Next, he said to Thomas: "Look at my hands, and place your finger here; and bring your hand close, and place it at my side. And do not choose to be unbelieving, but faithful."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thomas responded and said to him, "My Lord and my God."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Jesus said to him: "You have seen me, Thomas, so you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Jesus also accomplished many other signs in the sight of his disciples. These have not been written in this book.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But these things have been written, so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and so that, in believing, you may have life in his name.</p>

</body>
</html>