<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In those days, as the number of disciples was increasing, there occurred a murmuring of the Greeks against the Hebrews, because their widows were treated with disdain in the daily ministration.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And so the twelve, calling together the multitude of the disciples, said: "It is not fair for us to leave behind the Word of God to serve at tables also.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore, brothers, search among yourselves for seven men of good testimony, filled with the Holy Spirit and with wisdom, whom we may appoint over this work.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yet truly, we will be continually in prayer and in the ministry of the Word."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the plan pleased the entire multitude. And they chose Stephen, a man filled with faith and with the Holy Spirit, and Philip and Prochorus and Nicanor and Timon and Parmenas and Nicolas, a new arrival from Antioch.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> These they set before the sight of the Apostles, and while praying, they imposed hands on them.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the Word of the Lord was increasing, and the number of disciples in Jerusalem was multiplied exceedingly. And even a large group of the priests were obedient to the faith.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then Stephen, filled with grace and fortitude, wrought great signs and miracles among the people.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But certain ones, from the synagogue of the so-called Libertines, and of the Cyrenians, and of the Alexandrians, and of those who were from Cilicia and Asia rose up and were disputing with Stephen.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But they were not able to resist the wisdom and the Spirit with which he was speaking.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then they suborned men who were to claim that they had heard him speaking words of blasphemy against Moses and against God.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And thus did they stir up the people and the elders and the scribes. And hurrying together, they seized him and brought him to the council.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they set up false witnesses, who said: "This man does not cease to speak words against the holy place and the law.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For we have heard him saying that this Jesus the Nazarene will destroy this place and will change the traditions, which Moses handed down to us."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And all those who were sitting in the council, gazing at him, saw his face, as if it had become the face of an Angel.</p>

</body>
</html>