<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And certain ones, descending from Judea, were teaching the brothers, "Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore, when Paul and Barnabas made no small uprising against them, they decided that Paul and Barnabas, and some from the opposing side, should go up to the Apostles and priests in Jerusalem concerning this question.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore, being led by the church, they traveled through Phoenicia and Samaria, describing the conversion of the Gentiles. And they caused great joy among all the brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when they had arrived in Jerusalem, they were received by the church and the Apostles and the elders, reporting what great things God had done with them.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But some from the sect of the Pharisees, those who were believers, rose up saying, "It is necessary for them to be circumcised and to be instructed to keep the Law of Moses."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Apostles and elders came together to take care of this matter.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And after a great contention had taken place, Peter rose up and said to them: "Noble brothers, you know that, in recent days, God has chosen from among us, by my mouth, Gentiles to hear the word of the Gospel and to believe.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And God, who knows hearts, offered testimony, by giving the Holy Spirit to them, just as to us.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he distinguished nothing between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now therefore, why do you tempt God to impose a yoke upon the necks of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But by the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, we believe in order to be saved, in the same manner also as them."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then the entire multitude was silent. And they were listening to Barnabas and Paul, describing what great signs and wonders God had wrought among the Gentiles through them.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And after they had been silent, James responded by saying: "Noble brothers, listen to me.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Simon has explained in what manner God first visited, so as to take from the Gentiles a people to his name.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the words of the Prophets are in agreement with this, just as it was written:</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> 'After these things, I will return, and I will rebuild the tabernacle of David, which has fallen down. And I will rebuild its ruins, and I will raise it up,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> so that the rest of men may seek the Lord, along with all the nations over whom my name has been invoked, says the Lord, who does these things.'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To the Lord, his own work has been known from eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Because of this, I judge that those who were converted to God from among the Gentiles are not to be disturbed,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> but instead that we write to them, that they should keep themselves from the defilement of idols, and from fornication, and from whatever has been suffocated, and from blood.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For Moses, from ancient times, has had in each city those who preach him in the synagogues, where he is read on every Sabbath."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then it pleased the Apostles and elders, with the whole Church, to choose men from among them, and to send to Antioch, with Paul and Barnabas, and Judas, who was surnamed Barsabbas, and Silas, preeminent men among the brothers,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> what was written by their own hands: "The Apostles and elders, brothers, to those who are at Antioch and Syria and Cilicia, brothers from the Gentiles, greetings.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Since we have heard that some, going out from among us, have troubled you with words, subverting your souls, to whom we gave no commandment,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> it pleased us, being assembled as one, to choose men and to send them to you, with our most beloved Barnabas and Paul:</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> men who have handed over their lives on behalf of the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Therefore, we have sent Judas and Silas, who themselves also will, with the spoken word, reaffirm to you the same things.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us to impose no further burden upon you, other than these necessary things:</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> that you abstain from things immolated to idols, and from blood, and from what has been suffocated, and from fornication. You will do well to keep yourselves from these things. Farewell."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And so, having been dismissed, they went down to Antioch. And gathering the multitude together, they delivered the epistle.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And when they had read it, they were gladdened by this consolation.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But Judas and Silas, being also prophets themselves, consoled the brothers with many words, and they were strengthened.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then, after spending some more time there, they were dismissed with peace, by the brothers, to those who had sent them.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But it seemed good to Silas to remain there. So Judas alone departed to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And Paul and Barnabas remained at Antioch, with many others, teaching and evangelizing the Word of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then, after some days, Paul said to Barnabas, "Let us return to visit the brothers throughout all the cities in which we have preached the Word of the Lord, to see how they are."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And Barnabas wanted to take John, who was surnamed Mark, with them also.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But Paul was saying that he ought not to be received, since he withdrew from them at Pamphylia, and he had not gone with them in the work.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And there occurred a dissension, to such an extent that they departed from one another. And Barnabas, indeed taking Mark, sailed to Cyprus.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Yet truly, Paul, choosing Silas, set out, being delivered by the brothers to the grace of God.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And he traveled through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the Churches, instructing them to keep the precepts of the Apostles and the elders.</p>

</body>
</html>