<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now the Apostles and brothers who were in Judea heard that the Gentiles had also received the Word of God.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then, when Peter had gone up to Jerusalem, those who were of the circumcision argued against him,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> saying, "Why did you enter to uncircumcised men, and why did you eat with them?"</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Peter began to explain to them, in an orderly manner, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> "I was in the city of Joppa praying, and I saw, in an ecstasy of mind, a vision: a certain container descending, like a great linen sheet being let down from heaven by its four corners. And it drew near to me.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And looking into it, I considered and saw the four-footed beasts of the earth, and the wild beasts, and the reptiles, and the flying things of the air.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then I also heard a voice saying to me: 'Rise up, Peter. Kill and eat.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But I said: 'Never, lord! For what is common or unclean has never entered into my mouth.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then the voice responded a second time from heaven, 'What God has cleansed, you shall not call common.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now this was done three times. And then everything was taken up again into heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And behold, immediately there were three men standing near the house where I was, having been sent to me from Caesarea.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then the Spirit told me that I should go with them, doubting nothing. And these six brothers went with me also. And we entered into the house of the man.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he described for us how he had seen an Angel in his house, standing and saying to him: 'Send to Joppa and summon Simon, who is surnamed Peter.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he shall speak to you words, by which you shall be saved with your whole house.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And when I had begun to speak, the Holy Spirit fell upon them, just as upon us also, in the beginning.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then I remembered the words of the Lord, just as he himself said: 'John, indeed, baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore, if God gave them the same grace, as also to us, who have believed in the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I, that I would be able to prohibit God?"</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Having heard these things, they were silent. And they glorified God, saying: "So has God also given to the Gentiles repentance unto life."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And some of them, having been dispersed by the persecution that had occurred under Stephen, traveled around, even to Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the Word to no one, except to Jews only.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But some of these men from Cyprus and Cyrene, when they had entered into Antioch, were speaking also to the Greeks, announcing the Lord Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the hand of the Lord was with them. And a great number believed and were converted to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Now the news came to the ears of the Church at Jerusalem about these things, and they sent Barnabas as far as Antioch.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And when he had arrived there and had seen the grace of God, he was gladdened. And he exhorted them all to continue in the Lord with a resolute heart.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For he was a good man, and he was filled with the Holy Spirit and with faith. And a great multitude was added to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then Barnabas set out for Tarsus, so that he might seek Saul. And when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they were conversing there in the Church for an entire year. And they taught such a great multitude, that it was at Antioch that the disciples were first known by the name of Christian.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Now in these days, prophets from Jerusalem went over to Antioch.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And one of them, named Agabus, rising up, signified through the Spirit that there was going to be a great famine over the entire world, which did happen under Claudius.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Then the disciples declared, according to what each one possessed, what they would offer to be sent to the brothers living in Judea.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And so they did, sending it to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul.</p>

</body>
</html>