<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then, after five days, the high priest Ananias came down with some of the elders and a certain Tertullus, a speaker. And they went to the governor against Paul.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And having summoned Paul, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying: "Most excellent Felix, since we have much peace through you, and many things may be corrected by your providence,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> we acknowledge this, always and everywhere, with acts of thanksgiving for everything.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But lest I speak at too great a length, I beg you, by your clemency, to listen to us briefly.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> We have found this man to be pestilent, to be inciting seditions among all the Jews in the entire world, and to be the author of the sedition of the sect of the Nazarenes.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he has even been attempting to violate the temple. And having apprehended him, we wanted him to be judged according to our law.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But Lysias, the tribune, overwhelming us with great violence, snatched him away from our hands,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> ordering his accusers to come to you. From them, you yourself will be able, by judging about all these things, to understand the reason that we accuse him."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And then the Jews interjected, saying that these things were so.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then, since the governor had motioned for him to speak, Paul responded: "Knowing that you have been the judge over this nation for many years, I will give an explanation of myself with an honest soul.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For, as you may realize, it has only been twelve days since I went up to worship in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they did not find me in the temple arguing with anyone, nor causing a rally of the people: neither in the synagogues, nor in the city.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they are not able to prove to you the things about which they now accuse me.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I confess this to you, that according to that sect, which they call a heresy, so do I serve my God and Father, believing all that is written in the Law and the Prophets,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> having a hope in God, which these others themselves also expect, that there will be a future resurrection of the just and the unjust.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And in this, I myself always strive to have a conscience that is lacking in any offence toward God and toward men.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then, after many years, I went to my nation, bringing alms and offerings and vows,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> through which I obtained purification in the temple: neither with a crowd, nor with a commotion.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But certain Jews out of Asia are the ones who should have appeared before you to accuse me, if they have anything against me.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Or let these ones here say if they have found in me any iniquity, while standing before the council.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For while standing among them, I spoke out solely about this one matter: about the resurrection of the dead. It is about this that I am being judged today by you."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then Felix, after having ascertained much knowledge about this Way, kept them waiting, by saying, "When Lysias the tribune has arrived, I will give you a hearing."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he ordered a centurion to guard him, and to take rest, and not to prohibit any of his own from ministering to him.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then, after some days, Felix, arriving with his wife Drusilla who was a Jew, called for Paul and listened to him about the faith that is in Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And after he discoursed about justice and chastity, and about the future judgment, Felix was trembling, and he responded: "For now, go, but remain under guard. Then, at an opportune time, I will summon you."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He was also hoping that money might be given to him by Paul, and because of this, he frequently summoned him and spoke with him.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then, when two years had passed, Felix was succeeded by Portius Festus. And since Felix wanted to show particular favor to the Jews, he left Paul behind as a prisoner.</p>

</body>
</html>