<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now there was a certain man in Caesarea, named Cornelius, a centurion of the cohort which is called Italian,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> a devout man, fearing God with all his house, giving many alms to the people, and praying to God continually.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> This man saw in a vision clearly, at about the ninth hour of the day, the Angel of God entering to him and saying to him: "Cornelius!"</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he, gazing at him, was seized by fear, and he said, "What is it, lord?" And he said to him: "Your prayers and your almsgiving have ascended as a memorial in the sight of God.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And now, send men to Joppa and summon a certain Simon, who is surnamed Peter.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This man is a guest with a certain Simon, a tanner, whose house is beside the sea. He will tell you what you must do."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when the Angel who was speaking to him had departed, he called, out of those who were subject to him, two of his household servants and a soldier who feared the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when he had explained everything to them, he sent them to Joppa.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then, on the following day, while they were making the journey and approaching the city, Peter ascended to the upper rooms, so that he might pray, at about the sixth hour.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And since he was hungry, he wanted to enjoy some food. Then, as they were preparing it, an ecstasy of mind fell over him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he saw heaven opened, and a certain container descending, as if a great linen sheet were let down, by its four corners, from heaven to earth,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> on which were all four-footed beasts, and the crawling things of the earth and the flying things of the air.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And a voice came to him: "Rise up, Peter! Kill and eat."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But Peter said: "Far be it from me, lord. For I have never eaten anything common or unclean."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the voice, again a second time to him: "What God has purified, you shall not call common."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Now this was done three times. And immediately the container was taken up to heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now while Peter was still hesitant within himself as to what the vision, which he had seen, might mean, behold, the men who had been sent from Cornelius stood at the gate, inquiring about Simon's house.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And when they had called out, they asked if Simon, who is surnamed Peter, was a guest in that place.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then, as Peter was thinking about the vision, the Spirit said to him, "Behold, three men seek you.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And so, rise up, descend, and go with them, doubting nothing. For I have sent them."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then Peter, descending to the men, said: "Behold, I am the one whom you seek. What is the reason for which you have arrived?"</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they said: "Cornelius, a centurion, a just and God-fearing man, who has good testimony from the entire nation of the Jews, received a message from a holy Angel to summon you to his house and to listen to words from you."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore, leading them in, he received them as guests. Then, on following the day, rising up, he set out with them. And some of the brothers from Joppa accompanied him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And on the next day, he entered Caesarea. And truly, Cornelius was waiting for them, having called together his family and closest friends.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And it happened that, when Peter had entered, Cornelius went to meet him. And falling before his feet, he reverenced.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Yet truly, Peter, lifting him up, said: "Rise up, for I also am only a man."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And speaking with him, he entered, and he found many who had gathered together.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he said to them: "You know how abominable it would be for a Jewish man to be joined with, or to be added to, a foreign people. But God has revealed to me to call no man common or unclean.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Because of this and without doubt, I came when summoned. Therefore, I ask you, for what reason have you summoned me?"</p>

<p><a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Cornelius said: "It is now the fourth day, to this very hour, since I was praying in my house at the ninth hour, and behold, a man stood before me in a white vestment, and he said:</p>

<p><a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> 'Cornelius, your prayer has been heard and your almsgiving has been remembered in the sight of God.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Therefore, send to Joppa and summon Simon, who is surnamed Peter. This man is a guest in the house of Simon, a tanner, near the sea.'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And so, I promptly sent for you. And you have done well in coming here. Therefore, all of us are now present in your sight to hear all the things that were taught to you by the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then, Peter, opening his mouth, said: "I have concluded in truth that God is not a respecter of persons.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> But within every nation, whoever fears him and works justice is acceptable to him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> God sent the Word to the sons of Israel, announcing the peace through Jesus Christ, for he is the Lord of all.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> You know that the Word has been made known throughout all Judea. For beginning from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Jesus of Nazareth, whom God anointed with the Holy Spirit and with power, traveled around doing good and healing all those oppressed by the devil. For God was with him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And we are witnesses of all that he did in the region of Judea and in Jerusalem, he whom they killed by hanging him on a tree.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> God raised him up on the third day and permitted him to be made manifest,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> not to all the people, but to the witnesses preordained by God, to those of us who ate and drank with him after he rose again from the dead.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And he instructed us to preach to the people, and to testify that he is the One who was appointed by God to be the judge of the living and of the dead.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> To him all the Prophets offer testimony that through his name all who believe in him receive the remission of sins."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell over all of those who were listening to the Word.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And the faithful of the circumcision, who had arrived with Peter, were astonished that the grace of the Holy Spirit was also poured out upon the Gentiles.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> For they heard them speaking in tongues and magnifying God.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Then Peter responded, "How could anyone prohibit water, so that those who have received the Holy Spirit would not be baptized, just as we also have been?"</p>

<p><a id="c10_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And he ordered them to be baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then they begged him to remain with them for some days.</p>

</body>
</html>