<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then it was decided to send him by ship to Italy, and that Paul, with the others in custody, should be delivered to a centurion named Julius, of the cohort of Augusta.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> After climbing aboard a ship from Adramyttium, we set sail and began to navigate along the ports of Asia, with Aristarchus, the Macedonian from Thessalonica, joining us.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And on the following day, we arrived at Sidon. And Julius, treating Paul humanely, permitted him to go to his friends and to look after himself.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when we had set sail from there, we navigated below Cyprus, because the winds were contrary.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And navigating though the sea of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we arrived at Lystra, which is in Lycia.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And there the centurion found a ship from Alexandria sailing to Italy, and he transferred us to it.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when we had sailed slowly for many days and had barely arrived opposite Cnidus, for the wind was hindering us, we sailed to Crete, near Salmone.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And barely being able to sail past it, we arrived at a certain place, which is called Good Shelter, next to which was the city of Lasea.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then, after much time had passed, and since sailing would no longer be prudent because the Fast Day had now passed, Paul consoled them,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and he said to them: "Men, I perceive that the voyage is now in danger of injury and much damage, not only to the cargo and the ship, but also to our own lives."</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the centurion put more trust in the captain and the navigator of the ship, than in the things being said by Paul.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And since it was not a fitting port in which to winter, the majority opinion was to sail from there, so that somehow they might be able to arrive at Phoenicia, in order to winter there, at a port of Crete, which looks out toward the southwest and northwest.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And since the south wind was blowing gently, they thought that they might reach their goal. And after they had set out from Asson, they weighed anchor at Crete.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But not long afterward, a violent wind came against them, which is called the Northeast Wind.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And once the ship had been caught in it and was not able to strive against the wind, giving over the ship to the winds, we were driven along.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then, being forced along a certain island, which is called the Tail, we were barely able to hold on to the ship's lifeboat.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> When this was taken up, they used it to assist in securing the ship. For they were afraid that they might run aground. And having lowered the sails, they were being driven along in this way.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then, since we were being tossed about strongly by the tempest, on the following day, they threw the heavy items overboard.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And on the third day, with their own hands, they threw the equipment of the ship overboard.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then, when neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and no end to the storm was imminent, all hope for our safety was now taken away.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And after they had fasted for a long time, Paul, standing in their midst, said: "Certainly, men, you should have listened to me and not set out from Crete, so as to cause this injury and loss.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And now, let me persuade you to be courageous in soul. For there shall be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For an Angel of God, who is assigned to me and whom I serve, stood beside me this night,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> saying: 'Do not be afraid, Paul! It is necessary for you to stand before Caesar. And behold, God has given to you all those who are sailing with you.'</p>

<p><a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Because of this, men, be courageous in soul. For I trust God that this will happen in the same way that it has been told to me.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But it is necessary for us to arrive at a certain island."</p>

<p><a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then, after the fourteenth night arrived, as we were navigating in the sea of Adria, about the middle of the night, the sailors believed that they saw some portion of the land.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And upon dropping a weight, they found a depth of twenty paces. And some distance from there, they found a depth of fifteen paces.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Then, fearing that we might happen upon rough places, they cast four anchors out of the stern, and they were hoping for daylight to arrive soon.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Yet truly, the sailors were seeking a way to flee from the ship, for they had lowered a lifeboat into the sea, on the pretext that they were attempting to cast anchors from the bow of the ship.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> So Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, "Unless these men remain in the ship, you will not be able to be saved."</p>

<p><a id="c27_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then the soldiers cut the ropes to the lifeboat, and they allowed it to fall.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And when it began to be light, Paul requested that they all take food, saying: "This is the fourteenth day that you have been waiting and continuing to fast, taking nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For this reason, I beg you to accept food for the sake of your health. For not a hair from the head of any of you shall perish."</p>

<p><a id="c27_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And when he had said these things, taking bread, he gave thanks to God in the sight of them all. And when he had broken it, he began to eat.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then they all became more peaceful in soul. And they also took food.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Truly, we were two hundred and seventy-six souls on the ship.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And having been nourished with food, they lightened the ship, casting the wheat into the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And when day had arrived, they did not recognize the landscape. Yet truly, they caught sight of a certain narrow inlet having a shore, into which they thought it might be possible to force the ship.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And when they had taken up the anchors, they committed themselves to the sea, at the same time loosing the restraints of the rudders. And so, raising the mainsail to the gusting wind, they pressed on toward the shore.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And when we happened upon a place open to two seas, they ran the ship aground. And indeed, the bow, being immobilized, remained fixed, but truly the stern was broken by the violence of the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Then the soldiers were in agreement that they should kill the prisoners, lest anyone, after escaping by swimming, might flee.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> But the centurion, wanting to save Paul, prohibited it from being done. And he ordered those who were able to swim to jump in first, and to escape, and to get to the land.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And as for the others, some they carried on boards, and others on those things that belonged to the ship. And so it happened that every soul escaped to the land.</p>

</body>
</html>