<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now there were, in the Church at Antioch, prophets and teachers, among whom were Barnabas, and Simon, who was called the Black, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manahen, who was the foster brother of Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now as they were ministering for the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said to them: "Separate Saul and Barnabas for me, for the work for which I have selected them."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then, fasting and praying and imposing their hands upon them, they sent them away.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And having been sent by the Holy Spirit, they went to Seleucia. And from there they sailed to Cyprus.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when they had arrived at Salamis, they were preaching the Word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. And they also had John in the ministry.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when they had traveled throughout the entire island, even to Paphos, they found a certain man, a magician, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name was Bar-Jesu.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, a prudent man. This man, summoning Barnabas and Saul, wanted to hear the Word of God.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But Elymas the magician (for so his name is translated) stood against them, seeking to turn the proconsul away from the Faith.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then Saul, who is also called Paul, having been filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and he said: "So full of every deceit and of all falsehoods, son of the devil, enemy of all justice, you never cease to subvert the righteous ways of the Lord!</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you. And you will be blinded, not seeing the sun for a length of time." And immediately a fog and a darkness fell over him. And wandering around, he was seeking someone who might lead him by the hand.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then the proconsul, when he had seen what was done, believed, being in wonder over the doctrine of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And when Paul and those who were with him had sailed from Paphos, they arrived at Perga in Pamphylia. Then John departed from them and returned to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yet truly, they, traveling on from Perga, arrived at Antioch in Pisidia. And upon entering the synagogue on the Sabbath day, they sat down.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then, after the reading from the Law and the Prophets, the leaders of the synagogue sent to them, saying: "Noble brothers, if there is in you any word of exhortation to the people, speak."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then Paul, rising up and motioning for silence with his hand, said: "Men of Israel and you who fear God, listen closely.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The God of the people of Israel chose our fathers, and exalted the people, when they were settlers in the land of Egypt. And with an exalted arm, he led them away from there.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And throughout a time of forty years, he endured their behavior in the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And by destroying seven nations in the land of Canaan, he divided their land among them by lot,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> after about four hundred and fifty years. And after these things, he gave them judges, even until the prophet Samuel.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And later on, they petitioned for a king. And God gave them Saul, the son of Kish, a man from the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And having removed him, he raised up for them king David. And offering testimony about him, he said, 'I have found David, the son of Jesse, to be a man according to my own heart, who will accomplish all that I will.'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> From his offspring, according to the Promise, God has brought Jesus the Savior to Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> John was preaching, before the face of his advent, a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then, when John completed his course, he was saying: 'I am not the one you consider me to be. For behold, one arrives after me, the shoes of whose feet I am not worthy to loosen.'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Noble brothers, sons of the stock of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, it is to you the Word of this salvation has been sent.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For those who were living in Jerusalem, and its rulers, heeding neither him, nor the voices of the Prophets that are read on every Sabbath, fulfilled these by judging him.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And although they found no case for death against him, they petitioned Pilate, so that they might put him to death.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And when they had fulfilled everything that had been written about him, taking him down from the tree, they placed him in a tomb.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Yet truly, God raised him up from the dead on the third day.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he was seen for many days by those who went up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who even now are his witnesses to the people.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And we are announcing to you that the Promise, which was made to our fathers,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> has been fulfilled by God for our children by raising up Jesus, just as it has been written in the second Psalm also: 'You are my Son. This day I have begotten you.'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Now, since he raised him from the dead, so as to no longer return to corruption, he has said this: 'I will give to you the holy things of David, the faithful one.'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And also then, in another place, he says: 'You will not allow your Holy One to see corruption.'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For David, when he had ministered to his generation in accordance with the will of God, fell asleep, and he was placed next to his fathers, and he saw corruption.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Yet truly, he whom God has raised from the dead has not seen corruption.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Therefore, let it be known to you, noble brothers, that through him is announced to you remission from sins and from everything by which you were not able to be justified in the law of Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> In him, all who believe are justified.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Therefore, be careful, lest what was said by the Prophets may overwhelm you:</p>

<p><a id="c13_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> 'You despisers! Look, and wonder, and be scattered! For I am working a deed in your days, a deed which you would not believe, even if someone were to explain it to you.' "</p>

<p><a id="c13_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Then, as they were departing, they asked them if, on the following Sabbath, they might speak these words to them.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And when the synagogue had been dismissed, many among the Jews and the new worshipers were following Paul and Barnabas. And they, speaking to them, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Yet truly, on the following Sabbath, nearly the entire city came together to hear the Word of God.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then the Jews, seeing the crowds, were filled with envy, and they, blaspheming, contradicted the things that were being said by Paul.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Then Paul and Barnabas said firmly: "It was necessary to speak the Word of God first to you. But because you reject it, and so judge yourselves unworthy of eternal life, behold, we turn to the Gentiles.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> For so has the Lord instructed us: 'I have set you as a light to the Gentiles, so that you may bring salvation to the ends of the earth.' "</p>

<p><a id="c13_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Then the Gentiles, upon hearing this, were gladdened, and they were glorifying the Word of the Lord. And as many as believed were preordained to eternal life.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Now the word of the Lord was disseminated throughout the entire region.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> But the Jews incited some devout and honest women, and the leaders of the city. And they stirred up a persecution against Paul and Barnabas. And they drove them away from their parts.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> But they, shaking the dust from their feet against them, went on to Iconium.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> The disciples were likewise filled with gladness and with the Holy Spirit.</p>

</body>
</html>