<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now when they had walked through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they arrived at Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then Paul, according to custom, entered to them. And for three Sabbaths he disputed with them about the Scriptures,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> interpreting and concluding that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise again from the dead, and that "this is the Jesus Christ, whom I am announcing to you."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And some of them believed and were joined to Paul and Silas, and a great number of these were from the worshipers and the Gentiles, and not a few were noble women.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But the Jews, being jealous, and joining with certain evildoers among the common men, caused a disturbance, and they stirred up the city. And taking up a position near the house of Jason, they sought to lead them out to the people.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when they had not found them, they dragged Jason and certain brothers to the rulers of the city, crying out: "For these are the ones who have stirred up the city. And they came here,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and Jason has received them. And all these men act contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they incited the people. And the rulers of the city, upon hearing these things,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and having received an explanation from Jason and the others, released them.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet truly, the brothers promptly sent Paul and Silas away by night to Beroea. And when they had arrived, they entered the synagogue of the Jews.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But these were more noble than those who were at Thessalonica. They received the Word with all enthusiasm, daily examining the Scriptures to see if these things were so.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And indeed, many believed among them, as well as not a few among the honorable Gentile men and women.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then, when the Jews of Thessalonica had realized that the Word of God was also preached by Paul at Beroea, they went there also, stirring up and disturbing the multitude.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And then the brothers quickly sent Paul away, so that he might travel by sea. But Silas and Timothy remained there.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then those who were leading Paul brought him as far as Athens. And having received an order from him to Silas and Timothy, that they should come to him quickly, they set out.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Now while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was stirred up within him, seeing the city given over to idolatry.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And so, he was disputing with the Jews in the synagogue, and with the worshipers, and in public places, throughout each day, with whomever was there.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now certain Epicurean and Stoic philosophers were arguing with him. And some were saying, "What does this sower of the Word want to say?" Yet others were saying, "He seems to be an announcer for new demons." For he was announcing to them Jesus and the Resurrection.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And apprehending him, they brought him to the Areopagus, saying: "Are we able to know what this new doctrine is, about which you speak?</p>

<p><a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For you bring certain new ideas to our ears. And so we would like to know what these things mean."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> (Now all the Athenians, and arriving visitors, were occupying themselves with nothing other than speaking or hearing various new ideas.)</p>

<p><a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But Paul, standing in the middle of the Areopagus, said: "Men of Athens, I perceive that in all things you are rather superstitious.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For as I was passing by and noticing your idols, I also found an altar, on which was written: TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. Therefore, what you worship in ignorance, this is what I am preaching to you:</p>

<p><a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> the God who made the world and all that is in it, the One who is the Lord of heaven and earth, who does not live in temples made with hands.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Neither is he served by the hands of men, as if in need of anything, since it is he who gives to all things life and breath and all else.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he has made, out of one, every family of man: to live upon the face of the entire earth, determining the appointed seasons and the limits of their habitation,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> so as to seek God, if perhaps they may consider him or find him, though he is not far from each one of us.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> 'For in him we live, and move, and exist.' Just as some of your own poets have said. 'For we are also of his family.'</p>

<p><a id="c17_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Therefore, since we are of the family of God, we must not consider gold or silver or precious stones, or the engravings of art and of the imagination of man, to be a representation of what is Divine.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And indeed, God, having looked down to see the ignorance of these times, has now announced to men that everyone everywhere should do penance.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For he has appointed a day on which he will judge the world in equity, through the man whom he has appointed, offering faith to all, by raising him from the dead."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And when they had heard about the Resurrection of the dead, indeed, some were derisive, while others said, "We will listen to you about this again."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> So Paul departed from their midst.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Yet truly, certain men, adhering to him, did believe. Among these were also Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.</p>

</body>
</html>