<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After these things, having departed from Athens, he arrived at Corinth.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And upon finding a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, who had recently arrived from Italy with Priscilla his wife, (because Claudius had ordered all Jews to depart from Rome,) he met with them.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And because he was of the same trade, he lodged with them and was working. (Now they were tentmakers by trade.)</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he was arguing in the synagogue on every Sabbath, introducing the name of the Lord Jesus. And he was persuading Jews and Greeks.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when Silas and Timothy had arrived from Macedonia, Paul stood firm in the Word, testifying to the Jews that Jesus is the Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But since they were contradicting him and blaspheming, he shook out his garments and said to them: "Your blood is on your own heads. I am clean. From now on, I will go to the Gentiles."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And moving from that place, he entered into the house of a certain man, named Titus the Just, a worshiper of God, whose house was adjoined to the synagogue.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now Crispus, a leader of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, with his entire house. And many of the Corinthians, upon hearing, believed and were baptized.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then the Lord said to Paul, through a vision in the night: "Do not be afraid. Instead, speak out and do not be silent.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For I am with you. And no one will take hold of you, so as to do you harm. For many of the people in this city are with me."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then he settled there for a year and six months, teaching the Word of God among them.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But when Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews rose up with one accord against Paul. And they brought him to the tribunal,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> saying, "He persuades men to worship God contrary to the law."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then, when Paul was beginning to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews: "If this were some matter of injustice, or a wicked deed, O noble Jews, I would support you, as is proper.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Yet if truly these are questions about a word and names and your law, you should see to it yourselves. I will not be the judge of such things."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he ordered them from the tribunal.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But they, apprehending Sosthenes, a leader of the synagogue, beat him in front of the tribunal. And Gallio showed no concern for these things.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yet truly, Paul, after he had remained for many more days, having said goodbye to the brothers, sailed into Syria, and with him were Priscilla and Aquila. Now he had shaved his head in Cenchreae, for he had made a vow.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he arrived at Ephesus, and he left them behind there. Yet truly, he himself, entering into the synagogue, was disputing with the Jews.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then, although they were asking him to remain for a longer time, he would not agree.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Instead, saying goodbye and telling them, "I will return to you again, God willing," he set out from Ephesus.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And after going down to Caesarea, he went up to Jerusalem, and he greeted the Church there, and then he descended to Antioch.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And having spent some length of time there, he set out, and he walked in order through the region of Galatia and Phrygia, strengthening all the disciples.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Now a certain Jew named Apollo, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man who was powerful with the Scriptures, arrived at Ephesus.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He was learned in the Way of the Lord. And being fervent in spirit, he was speaking and teaching the things that are of Jesus, but knowing only the baptism of John.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And so, he began to act faithfully in the synagogue. And when Priscilla and Aquila had heard him, they took him aside and expounded the Way of the Lord to him more thoroughly.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then, since he wanted to go to Achaia, the brothers wrote an exhortation to the disciples, so that they might accept him. And when he had arrived, he held many discussions with those who had believed.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For he was vehemently and publicly reproving the Jews, by revealing through the Scriptures that Jesus is the Christ.</p>

</body>
</html>