<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now Saul, still breathing threats and beatings against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and he petitioned him for letters to the synagogues in Damascus, so that, if he found any men or women belonging to this Way, he could lead them as prisoners to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And as he made the journey, it happened that he was approaching Damascus. And suddenly, a light from heaven shone around him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And falling to the ground, he heard a voice saying to him, "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he said, "Who are you, Lord?" And he: "I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. It is hard for you to kick against the goad."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he, trembling and astonished, said, "Lord, what do you want me to do?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the Lord said to him, "Rise up and go into the city, and there you will be told what you ought to do." Now the men who were accompanying him were standing stupefied, hearing indeed a voice, but seeing no one.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then Saul rose up from the ground. And upon opening his eyes, he saw nothing. So leading him by the hand, they brought him into Damascus.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And in that place, he was without sight for three days, and he neither ate nor drank.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now there was a certain disciple at Damascus, named Ananias. And the Lord said to him in a vision, "Ananias!" And he said, "Here I am, Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Lord said to him: "Rise up and go into the street that is called Straight, and seek, in the house of Judas, the one named Saul of Tarsus. For behold, he is praying."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> (And Paul saw a man named Ananias entering and imposing hands upon him, so that he might receive his sight.)</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But Ananias responded: "Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how much harm he has done to your saints in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he has authority here from the leaders of the priests to bind all who invoke your name."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then the Lord said to him: "Go, for this one is an instrument chosen by me to convey my name before nations and kings and the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For I will reveal to him how much he must suffer on behalf of my name."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Ananias departed. And he entered the house. And laying his hands upon him, he said: "Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, he who appeared to you on the way by which you arrived, sent me so that you would receive your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And immediately, it was as if scales had fallen from his eyes, and he received his sight. And rising up, he was baptized.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And when he had taken a meal, he was strengthened. Now he was with the disciples who were at Damascus for some days.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he was continuously preaching Jesus in the synagogues: that he is the Son of God.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And all who heard him were astonished, and they said, "Is this not the one who, in Jerusalem, was fighting against those invoking this name, and who came here for this: so that he might lead them away to the leaders of the priests?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But Saul was increasing to a greater extent in ability, and so he was confounding the Jews who lived at Damascus, by affirming that he is the Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And when many days were completed, the Jews took counsel as one, so that they might put him to death.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But their treachery became known to Saul. Now they were also watching the gates, day and night, so that they might put him to death.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But the disciples, taking him away by night, sent him over the wall by letting him down in a basket.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And when he had arrived in Jerusalem, he attempted to join himself to the disciples. And they were all afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But Barnabas took him aside and led him to the Apostles. And he explained to them how he had seen the Lord, and that he had spoken to him, and how, in Damascus, he had acted faithfully in the name of Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he was with them, entering and departing Jerusalem, and acting faithfully in the name of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He also was speaking with the Gentiles and disputing with the Greeks. But they were seeking to kill him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And when the brothers had realized this, they brought him to Caesarea and sent him away to Tarsus.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Certainly, the Church had peace throughout all of Judea and Galilee and Samaria, and it was being built up, while walking in the fear of the Lord, and it was being filled with the consolation of the Holy Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then it happened that Peter, as he traveled around everywhere, came to the saints who were living at Lydda.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But he found there a certain man, named Aeneas, who was a paralytic, who had lain in bed for eight years.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Peter said to him: "Aeneas, the Lord Jesus Christ heals you. Rise up and arrange your bed." And immediately he rose up.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And all who were living in Lydda and Sharon saw him, and they were converted to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Now in Joppa there was a certain disciple named Tabitha, which in translation is called Dorcas. She was filled with the good works and almsgiving that she was accomplishing.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And it happened that, in those days, she became ill and died. And when they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Now since Lydda was close to Joppa, the disciples, upon hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, asking him: "Do not be slow in coming to us."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Then Peter, rising up, went with them. And when he had arrived, they led him to an upper room. And all the widows were standing around him, weeping and showing him the tunics and garments that Dorcas had made for them.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And when they had all been sent outside, Peter, kneeling down, prayed. And turning to the body, he said: "Tabitha, arise." And she opened her eyes and, upon seeing Peter, sat up again.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And offering her his hand, he lifted her up. And when he had called in the saints and the widows, he presented her alive.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Now this became known throughout all of Joppa. And many believed in the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And it happened that he resided for many days in Joppa, with a certain Simon, a tanner.</p>

</body>
</html>