<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "Noble brothers and fathers, listen to the explanation that I now give to you."</p>

<p><a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when they heard him speaking to them in the Hebrew language, they offered a greater silence.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said: "I am a Jewish man, born at Tarsus in Cilicia, but raised in this city beside the feet of Gamaliel, taught according to the truth of the law of the fathers, zealous for the law, just as all of you also are to this day.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I persecuted this Way, even unto death, binding and delivering into custody both men and women,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> just as the high priest and all those greater by birth bear witness to me. Having received letters from them to the brothers, I journeyed to Damascus, so that I might lead them bound from there to Jerusalem, so that they might be punished.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But it happened that, as I was traveling and was approaching Damascus at midday, suddenly from heaven a great light shone around me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And falling to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me, 'Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?'</p>

<p><a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I responded, 'Who are you, Lord?' And he said to me, 'I am Jesus the Nazarene, whom you are persecuting.'</p>

<p><a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And those who were with me, indeed, saw the light, but they did not hear the voice of him who was speaking with me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I said, 'What should I do, Lord?' Then the Lord said to me: 'Rise up, and go to Damascus. And there, you shall be told all that you must do.'</p>

<p><a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And since I could not see, because of the brightness of that light, I was led by the hand by my companions, and I went to Damascus.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then a certain Ananias, a man in accord with the law, having the testimony of all the Jews who were living there,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> drawing near to me and standing close by, said to me, 'Brother Saul, see!' And in that same hour, I looked upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But he said: 'The God of our fathers has preordained you, so that you would come to know his will and would see the Just One, and would hear the voice from his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For you shall be his witness to all men about those things which you have seen and heard.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And now, why do you delay? Rise up, and be baptized, and wash away your sins, by invoking his name.'</p>

<p><a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then it happened that, when I returned to Jerusalem and was praying in the temple, a mental stupor came over me,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and I saw him saying to me: 'Hurry! Depart quickly from Jerusalem! For they will not accept your testimony about me.'</p>

<p><a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I said: 'Lord, they know that I am beating and enclosing in prison, throughout every synagogue, those who have believed in you.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when the blood of your witness Stephen was poured out, I stood nearby and was consenting, and I watched over the garments of those who put him to death.'</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he said to me, 'Go forth. For I am sending you to far away nations.' "</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Now they were listening to him, until this word, and then they lifted up their voice, saying: "Take this kind away from the earth! For it is not fitting for him to live!"</p>

<p><a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And while they were shouting, and tossing aside their garments, and casting dust into the air,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> the tribune ordered him to be brought into the fortress, and to be scourged and tortured, in order to discover the reason that they were crying out in this way against him.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And when they had tied him with straps, Paul said to the centurion who was standing near him, "Is it lawful for you to scourge a man who is a Roman and has not been condemned?"</p>

<p><a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Upon hearing this, the centurion went to the tribune and reported it to him, saying: "What do you intend to do? For this man is a Roman citizen."</p>

<p><a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the tribune, approaching, said to him: "Tell me. Are you a Roman?" So he said, "Yes."</p>

<p><a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the tribune responded, "I obtained this citizenship at great cost." And Paul said, "But I was born to it."</p>

<p><a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Therefore, those who were going to torture him, immediately withdrew from him. The tribune was similarly afraid, after he realized that he was a Roman citizen, for he had bound him.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But on the next day, wanting to discover more diligently what the reason was that he was accused by the Jews, he released him, and he ordered the priests to convene, with the entire council. And, producing Paul, he stationed him among them.</p>

</body>
</html>