<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And after these things had happened, having reluctantly parted from them, we sailed a direct course, arriving at Cos, and on following the day at Rhodes, and from there to Patara.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when we had found a ship sailing across to Phoenicia, climbing aboard, we set sail.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then, after we had caught sight of Cyprus, keeping it to the left, we sailed on to Syria, and we arrived at Tyre. For the ship was going to unload its cargo there.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then, having found the disciples, we lodged there for seven days. And they were saying to Paul, through the Spirit, that he should not go up to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when the days were completed, setting out, we went on; and they all accompanied us with their wives and children, until we were outside of the city. And we kneeled down at the shore and prayed.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when we had said farewell to one another, we climbed aboard the ship. And they returned to their own.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yet truly, having completed our journey by boat from Tyre, we descended to Ptolemais. And greeting the brothers, we lodged with them for one day.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then, after setting out the next day, we arrived at Caesarea. And upon entering into the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, we stayed with him.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Now this man had four daughters, virgins, who were prophesying.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And while we were delayed for some days, a certain prophet from Judea, named Agabus, arrived.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he, when he had come to us, took Paul's belt, and binding his own feet and hands, he said: "Thus says the Holy Spirit: The man whose belt this is, the Jews will bind in this way at Jerusalem. And they will deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when we had heard this, both we and those who were from that place begged him not to go up to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then Paul responded by saying: "What do you accomplish by weeping and afflicting my heart? For I am prepared, not only to be bound, but also to die in Jerusalem, for the name of the Lord Jesus."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And since we were not able to persuade him, we quieted, saying: "May the will of the Lord be done."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then, after those days, having made preparations, we ascended to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Now some of the disciples from Caesarea also went with us, bringing with them a certain Cypriot named Mnason, a very old disciple, whose guests we would be.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when we had arrived at Jerusalem, the brothers received us willingly.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then, on the following day, Paul entered with us to James. And all the elders were assembled.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And when he had greeted them, he explained each thing that God had accomplished among the Gentiles through his ministry.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they, upon hearing it, magnified God and said to him: "You understand, brother, how many thousands there are among the Jews who have believed, and they are all zealous for the law.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now they have heard about you, that you are teaching those Jews who are among the Gentiles to withdraw from Moses, telling them that they should not circumcise their sons, nor act according to custom.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> What is next? The multitude ought to be convened. For they will hear that you have arrived.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore, do this thing that we ask of you: We have four men, who are under a vow.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Take these and sanctify yourself with them, and require them to shave their heads. And then everyone will know that the things that they have heard about you are false, but that you yourself walk in keeping with the law.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But, about those Gentiles who have believed, we have written a judgment that they should keep themselves from what has been immolated to idols, and from blood, and from what has been suffocated, and from fornication."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then Paul, taking the men on the next day, was purified with them, and he entered the temple, announcing the process of the days of purification, until an oblation would be offered on behalf of each one of them.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But when the seven days were reaching completion, those Jews who were from Asia, when they had seen him in the temple, incited all the people, and they laid hands on him, crying out:</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> "Men of Israel, help! This is the man who is teaching, everyone, everywhere, against the people and the law and this place. Furthermore, he has even brought Gentiles into the temple, and he has violated this holy place."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> (For they had seen Trophimus, an Ephesian, in the city with him, and they supposed that Paul had brought him into the temple.)</p>

<p><a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the entire city was stirred up. And it happened that the people ran together. And apprehending Paul, they dragged him outside of the temple. And immediately the doors were closed.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then, as they were seeking to kill him, it was reported to the tribune of the cohort: "All Jerusalem is in confusion."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And so, immediately taking soldiers and centurions, he rushed down to them. And when they had seen the tribune and the soldiers, they ceased to strike Paul.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then the tribune, drawing near, apprehended him and ordered that he be bound with two chains. And he was asking who he was and what he had done.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then they were crying out various things within the crowd. And since he could not understand anything clearly because of the noise, he ordered him to be brought into the fortress.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And when he had arrived at the stairs, it happened that he was carried up by the soldiers, because of the threat of violence from the people.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For the multitude of the people were following and crying out, "Take him away!"</p>

<p><a id="c21_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And as Paul was beginning to be brought into the fortress, he said to the tribune, "Is it permissible for me to say something to you?" And he said, "You know Greek?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> So then, are you not that Egyptian who before these days incited a rebellion and led out into the desert four thousand murderous men?"</p>

<p><a id="c21_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But Paul said to him: "I am a man, indeed a Jew, from Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of a well-known city. So I petition you, permit me to speak to the people."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And when he had given him permission, Paul, standing on the stairs, motioned with his hand to the people. And when a great silence occurred, he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, saying:</p>

</body>
</html>