<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when the days of Pentecost were completed, they were all together in the same place.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And suddenly, there came a sound from heaven, like that of a wind approaching violently, and it filled the entire house where they were sitting.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And there appeared to them separate tongues, as if of fire, which settled upon each one of them.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit. And they began to speak in various languages, just as the Holy Spirit bestowed eloquence to them.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now there were Jews staying in Jerusalem, pious men from every nation that is under heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when this sound occurred, the multitude came together and was confused in mind, because each one was listening to them speaking in his own language.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then all were astonished, and they wondered, saying: "Behold, are not all of these who are speaking Galileans?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And how is it that we have each heard them in our own language, into which we were born?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Parthians and Medes and Elamites, and those who inhabit Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya which are around Cyrene, and new arrivals of the Romans,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> likewise Jews and new converts, Cretans and Arabs: we have heard them speaking in our own languages the mighty deeds of God."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they were all astonished, and they wondered, saying to one another: "But what does this mean?"</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But others mockingly said, "These men are full of new wine."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and he spoke to them: "Men of Judea, and all those who are staying in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and incline your ears to my words.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For these men are not inebriated, as you suppose, for it is the third hour of the day.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But this is what was spoken of by the prophet Joel:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> 'And this shall be: in the last days, says the Lord, I will pour out, from my Spirit, upon all flesh. And your sons and your daughters shall prophesy. And your youths shall see visions, and your elders shall dream dreams.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And certainly, upon my men and women servants in those days, I will pour out from my Spirit, and they shall prophesy.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I will bestow wonders in heaven above, and signs on earth below: blood and fire and the vapor of smoke.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood, before the great and manifest day of the Lord arrives.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And this shall be: whoever shall invoke the name of the Lord will be saved.'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus the Nazarene is a man confirmed by God among you through the miracles and wonders and signs that God accomplished through him in your midst, just as you also know.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> This man, under the definitive plan and foreknowledge of God, was delivered by the hands of the unjust, afflicted, and put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he whom God has raised up has broken the sorrows of Hell, for certainly it was impossible for him to be held by it.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For David said about him: 'I foresaw the Lord always in my sight, for he is at my right hand, so that I may not be moved.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Because of this, my heart has rejoiced, and my tongue has exulted. Moreover, my flesh shall also rest in hope.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For you will not abandon my soul to Hell, nor will you allow your Holy One to see corruption.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> You have made known to me the ways of life. You will completely fill me with happiness by your presence.'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Noble brothers, permit me to speak freely to you about the Patriarch David: for he passed away and was buried, and his sepulcher is with us, even to this very day.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Therefore, he was a prophet, for he knew that God had sworn an oath to him about the fruit of his loins, about the One who would sit upon his throne.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Foreseeing this, he was speaking about the Resurrection of the Christ. For he was neither left behind in Hell, nor did his flesh see corruption.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> This Jesus, God raised up again, and of this we are all witnesses.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Therefore, being exalted to the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the Promise of the Holy Spirit, he poured this out, just as you now see and hear.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For David did not ascend into heaven. But he himself said: 'The Lord said to my Lord: Sit at my right hand,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> until I make your enemies your footstool.'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Therefore, may the entire house of Israel know most certainly that God has made this same Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Now when they had heard these things, they were contrite in heart, and they said to Peter and to the other Apostles: "What should we do, noble brothers?"</p>

<p><a id="c2_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Yet truly, Peter said to them: "Do penance; and be baptized, each one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the remission of your sins. And you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> For the Promise is for you and for your sons, and for all who are far away: for whomever the Lord our God will have called."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And then, with very many other words, he testified and he exhorted them, saying, "Save yourselves from this depraved generation."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Therefore, those who accepted his discourse were baptized. And about three thousand souls were added on that day.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Now they were persevering in the doctrine of the Apostles, and in the communion of the breaking of the bread, and in the prayers.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And fear developed in every soul. Also, many miracles and signs were accomplished by the Apostles in Jerusalem. And there was a great awe in everyone.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And then all who believed were together, and they held all things in common.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> They were selling their possessions and belongings, and dividing them to all, just as any of them had need.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Also, they continued, daily, to be of one accord in the temple and to break bread among the houses; and they took their meals with exultation and simplicity of heart,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> praising God greatly, and holding favor with all the people. And every day, the Lord increased those who were being saved among them.</p>

</body>
</html>