<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And so, I beg you, brothers, by the mercy of God, that you offer your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God, with the subservience of your mind.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And do not choose to be conformed to this age, but instead choose to be reformed in the newness of your mind, so that you may demonstrate what is the will of God: what is good, and what is well-pleasing, and what is perfect.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I say, through the grace that has been given to me, to all who are among you: Taste no more than it is necessary to taste, but taste unto sobriety and just as God has distributed a share of the faith to each one.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For just as, within one body, we have many parts, though all the parts do not have the same role,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> so also we, being many, are one body in Christ, and each one is a part, the one of the other.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And we each have different gifts, according to the grace that has been given to us: whether prophecy, in agreement with the reasonableness of faith;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> or ministry, in ministering; or he who teaches, in doctrine;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> he who exhorts, in exhortation; he who gives, in simplicity; he who governs, in solicitude; he who shows mercy, in cheerfulness.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let love be without falseness: hating evil, clinging to what is good,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> loving one another with fraternal charity, surpassing one another in honor:</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> in solicitude, not lazy; in spirit, fervent; serving the Lord;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> in hope, rejoicing; in tribulation, enduring; in prayer, ever-willing;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> in the difficulties of the saints, sharing; in hospitality, attentive.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Bless those who are persecuting you: bless, and do not curse.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Rejoice with those who are rejoicing. Weep with those who are weeping.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Be of the same mind toward one another: not savoring what is exalted, but consenting in humility. Do not choose to seem wise to yourself.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Render to no one harm for harm. Provide good things, not only in the sight of God, but also in the sight of all men.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If it is possible, in so far as you are able, be at peace with all men.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Do not defend yourselves, dearest ones. Instead, step aside from wrath. For it is written: "Vengeance is mine. I shall give retribution, says the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> So if an enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him a drink. For in doing so, you will heap burning coals upon his head.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Do not allow evil to prevail, instead prevail over evil by means of goodness.</p>

</body>
</html>