<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But accept those who are weak in faith, without disputing about ideas.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For one person believes that he may eat all things, but if another is weak, let him eat plants.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He who eats should not despise him who does not eat. And he who does not eat should not judge him who eats. For God has accepted him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who are you to judge the servant of another? He stands or falls by his own Lord. But he shall stand. For God is able to make him stand.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For one person discerns one age from the next. But another discerns unto every age. Let each one increase according to his own mind.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He who understands the age, understands for the Lord. And he who eats, eats for the Lord; for he gives thanks to God. And he who does not eat, does not eat for the Lord, and he gives thanks to God.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For none of us lives for himself, and none of us dies for himself.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For if we live, we live for the Lord, and if we die, we die for the Lord. Therefore, whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For Christ died and rose again for this purpose: that he might be the ruler of both the dead and the living.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So then, why do you judge your brother? Or why do you despise your brother? For we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For it is written: "As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bend to me, and every tongue shall confess to God."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And so, each one of us shall offer an explanation of himself to God.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore, we should no longer judge one another. Instead, judge this to a greater extent: that you should not place an obstacle before your brother, nor lead him astray.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I know, with confidence in the Lord Jesus, that nothing is unclean in and of itself. But to him who considers anything to be unclean, it is unclean to him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For if your brother is grieved because of your food, you are not now walking according to love. Do not allow your food to destroy him for whom Christ died.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, what is good for us should not be a cause of blasphemy.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the kingdom of God is not food and drink, but rather justice and peace and joy, in the Holy Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For he who serves Christ in this, pleases God and is proven before men.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And so, let us pursue the things that are of peace, and let us keep to the things that are for the edification of one another.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Do not be willing to destroy the work of God because of food. Certainly, all things are clean. But there is harm for a man who offends by eating.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It is good to refrain from eating meat and from drinking wine, and from anything by which your brother is offended, or led astray, or weakened.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Do you have faith? It belongs to you, so hold it before God. Blessed is he who does not judge himself in that by which he is tested.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But he who discerns, if he eats, is condemned, because it is not of faith. For all that is not of faith is sin.</p>

</body>
</html>