<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But we who are stronger must bear with the feebleness of the weak, and not so as to please ourselves.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Each one of you should please his neighbor unto good, for edification.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For even Christ did not please himself, but as it was written: "The reproaches of those who reproached you fell upon me."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For whatever was written, was written to teach us, so that, through patience and the consolation of the Scriptures, we might have hope.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So may the God of patience and solace grant you to be of one mind toward one another, in accord with Jesus Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> so that, together with one mouth, you may glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For this reason, accept one another, just as Christ also has accepted you, in the honor of God.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For I declare that Christ Jesus was the minister of circumcision because of the truth of God, so as to confirm the promises to the fathers,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and that the Gentiles are to honor God because of his mercy, just as it was written: "Because of this, I will confess you among the Gentiles, O Lord, and I will sing to your name."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And again, he says: "Rejoice, O Gentiles, along with his people."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And again: "All Gentiles, praise the Lord; and all peoples, magnify him."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And again, Isaiah says: "There shall be a root of Jesse, and he shall rise up to rule the Gentiles, and in him the Gentiles shall hope."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So may the God of hope fill you with every joy and with peace in believing, so that you may abound in hope and in the virtue of the Holy Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I am also certain about you, my brothers, that you also have been filled with love, completed with all knowledge, so that you are able to admonish one another.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But I have written to you, brothers, more boldly than to the others, as if calling you to mind again, because of the grace which has been given to me from God,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> so that I may be a minister of Christ Jesus among the Gentiles, sanctifying the Gospel of God, in order that the oblation of the Gentiles may be made acceptable and may be sanctified in the Holy Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore, I have glory in Christ Jesus before God.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> So I dare not speak of any of those things which Christ does not effect through me, unto the obedience of the Gentiles, in word and deed,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> with the power of signs and wonders, by power of the Holy Spirit. For in this way, from Jerusalem, throughout its surroundings, as far as Illyricum, I have replenished the Gospel of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And so I have preached this Gospel, not where Christ was known by name, lest I build upon the foundation of another,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> but just as it was written: "Those to whom he was not announced shall perceive, and those who have not heard shall understand."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Because of this also, I was greatly hindered in coming to you, and I have been prevented until the present time.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Yet truly now, having no other destination in these regions, and having already had a great desire to come to you over the past many years,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> when I begin to set out on my journey to Spain, I hope that, as I pass by, I may see you, and I may be guided from there by you, after first having borne some fruit among you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But next I will set out for Jerusalem, to minister to the saints.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For those of Macedonia and Achaia have decided to make a collection for those of the poor among the saints who are at Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And this has pleased them, because they are in their debt. For, since the Gentiles have become partakers of their spiritual things, they also ought to minister to them in worldly things.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Therefore, when I have completed this task, and have consigned to them this fruit, I shall set out, by way of you, to Spain.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And I know that when I come to you I shall arrive with an abundance of the blessings of the Gospel of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Therefore, I beg you, brothers, through our Lord Jesus Christ and though the love of the Holy Spirit, that you assist me with your prayers to God on my behalf,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> so that I may be freed from the unfaithful who are in Judea, and so that the oblation of my service may be acceptable to the saints in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> So may I come to you with joy, through the will of God, and so may I be refreshed with you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And may the God of peace be with you all. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>