<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called as an Apostle, separated for the Gospel of God,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> which he had promised beforehand, through his Prophets, in the Holy Scriptures,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> about his Son, who was made for him from the offspring of David according to the flesh,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> the Son of God, who was predestined in virtue according to the Spirit of sanctification from the resurrection of the dead, our Lord Jesus Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> through whom we have received grace and Apostleship, for the sake of his name, for the obedience of faith among all the Gentiles,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> from whom you also have been called by Jesus Christ:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> To all who are at Rome, the beloved of God, called as saints. Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Certainly, I give thanks to my God, through Jesus Christ, first for all of you, because your faith is being announced throughout the entire world.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For God is my witness, whom I serve in my spirit by the Gospel of his Son, that without ceasing I have kept a remembrance of you</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> always in my prayers, pleading that in some way, at some time, I may have a prosperous journey, within the will of God, to come to you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For I long to see you, so that I may impart to you a certain spiritual grace to strengthen you,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> specifically, to be consoled together with you through that which is mutual: your faith and mine.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But I want you to know, brothers, that I have often intended to come to you, (though I have been hindered even to the present time) so that I might obtain some fruit among you also, just as also among the other Gentiles.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> To the Greeks and to the uncivilized, to the wise and to the foolish, I am in debt.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So within me there is a prompting to evangelize to you also who are at Rome.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For I am not ashamed of the Gospel. For it is the power of God unto salvation for all believers, the Jew first, and the Greek.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the justice of God is revealed within it, by faith unto faith, just as it was written: "For the just one lives by faith."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven over every impiety and injustice among those men who fend off the truth of God with injustice.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For what is known about God is manifest in them. For God has manifested it to them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For unseen things about him have been made conspicuous, since the creation of the world, being understood by the things that were made; likewise his everlasting virtue and divinity, so much so that they have no excuse.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For although they had known God, they did not glorify God, nor give thanks. Instead, they became weakened in their thoughts, and their foolish heart was obscured.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For, while proclaiming themselves to be wise, they became foolish.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they exchanged the glory of the incorruptible God for the likeness of an image of corruptible man, and of flying things, and of four-legged beasts, and of serpents.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For this reason, God handed them over to the desires of their own heart for impurity, so that they afflicted their own bodies with indignities among themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they exchanged the truth of God for a lie. And they worshipped and served the creature, rather than the Creator, who is blessed for all eternity. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Because of this, God handed them over to shameful passions. For example, their females have exchanged the natural use of the body for a use which is against nature.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And similarly, the males also, abandoning the natural use of females, have burned in their desires for one another: males doing with males what is disgraceful, and receiving within themselves the recompense that necessarily results from their error.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And since they did not prove to have God by knowledge, God handed them over to a morally depraved way of thinking, so that they might do those things which are not fitting:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> having been completely filled with all iniquity, malice, fornication, avarice, wickedness; full of envy, murder, contention, deceit, spite, gossiping;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> slanderous, hateful toward God, abusive, arrogant, self-exalting, devisers of evil, disobedient to parents,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> foolish, disorderly; without affection, without fidelity, without mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And these, though they had known the justice of God, did not understand that those who act in such a manner are deserving of death, and not only those who do these things, but also those who consent to what is done.</p>

</body>
</html>