<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, who are not walking according to the flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has freed me from the law of sin and death.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For though this was impossible under the law, because it was weakened by the flesh, God sent his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and because of sin, in order to condemn sin in the flesh,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> so that the justification of the law might be fulfilled in us. For we are not walking according to the flesh, but according to the spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For those who are in agreement with the flesh are mindful of the things of the flesh. But those who are in agreement with the spirit are mindful of the things of the spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the prudence of the flesh is death. But the prudence of the spirit is life and peace.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the wisdom of the flesh is inimical to God. For it is not subject to the law of God, nor can it be.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> So those who are in the flesh are not able to please God.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if it is true that the Spirit of God lives within you. But if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to him.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But if Christ is within you, then the body is indeed dead, concerning sin, but the spirit truly lives, because of justification.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But if the Spirit of him who raised up Jesus from the dead lives within you, then he who raised up Jesus Christ from the dead shall also enliven your mortal bodies, by means of his Spirit living within you.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore, brothers, we are not debtors to the flesh, so as to live according to the flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if, by the Spirit, you mortify the deeds of the flesh, you shall live.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For all those who are led by the Spirit of God are the sons of God.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And you have not received, again, a spirit of servitude in fear, but you have received the Spirit of the adoption of sons, in whom we cry out: "Abba, Father!"</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the Spirit himself renders testimony to our spirit that we are the sons of God.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But if we are sons, then we are also heirs: certainly heirs of God, but also co-heirs with Christ, yet in such a way that, if we suffer with him, we shall also be glorified with him.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I consider that the sufferings of this time are not worthy to be compared with that future glory which shall be revealed in us.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For the anticipation of the creature anticipates the revelation of the sons of God.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For the creature was made subject to emptiness, not willingly, but for the sake of the One who made it subject, unto hope.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the creature itself shall also be delivered from the servitude of corruption, into the liberty of the glory of the sons of God.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For we know that every creature groans inwardly, as if giving birth, even until now;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and not only these, but also ourselves, since we hold the first-fruits of the Spirit. For we also groan within ourselves, anticipating our adoption as the sons of God, and the redemption of our body.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For we have been saved by hope. But a hope which is seen is not hope. For when a man sees something, why would he hope?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But since we hope for what we do not see, we wait with patience.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And similarly, the Spirit also helps our weakness. For we do not know how to pray as we ought, but the Spirit himself asks on our behalf with ineffable sighing.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he who examines hearts knows what the Spirit seeks, because he asks on behalf of the saints in accordance with God.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And we know that, for those who love God, all things work together unto good, for those who, in accordance with his purpose, are called to be saints.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For those whom he foreknew, he also predestinated, in conformity with the image of his Son, so that he might be the Firstborn among many brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And those whom he predestinated, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> So, what should we say about these things? If God is for us, who is against us?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He who did not spare even his own Son, but handed him over for the sake of us all, how could he not also, with him, have given us all things?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Who will make an accusation against the elect of God? God is the One who justifies;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> who is the one who condemns? Christ Jesus who has died, and who has indeed also risen again, is at the right hand of God, and even now he intercedes for us.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Then who will separate us from the love of Christ? Tribulation? Or anguish? Or famine? Or nakedness? Or peril? Or persecution? Or the sword?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For it is as it has been written: "For your sake, we are being put to death all day long. We are being treated like sheep for the slaughter."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> But in all these things we overcome, because of him who has loved us.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> For I am certain that neither death, nor life, nor Angels, nor Principalities, nor Powers, nor the present things, nor the future things, nor strength,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> nor the heights, nor the depths, nor any other created thing, will be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>