<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> So then, what more is the Jew, or what is the usefulness of circumcision?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Much in every way: First of all, certainly, because the eloquence of God was entrusted to them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But what if some of them have not believed? Shall their unbelief nullify the faith of God? Let it not be so!</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For God is truthful, but every man is deceitful; just as it was written: "Therefore, you are justified in your words, and you will prevail when you give judgment."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But if even our injustice points to the justice of God, what shall we say? Could God be unfair for inflicting wrath?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> (I am speaking in human terms.) Let it not be so! Otherwise, how would God judge this world?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For if the truth of God has abounded, through my falseness, unto his glory, why should I still be judged as such a sinner?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And should we not do evil, so that good may result? For so we have been slandered, and so some have claimed we said; their condemnation is just.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What is next? Should we try to excel ahead of them? By no means! For we have accused all Jews and Greeks to be under sin,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> just as it was written: "There is no one who is just.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> There is no one who understands. There is no one who seeks God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> All have gone astray; together they have become useless. There is no one who does good; there is not even one.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Their throat is an open sepulcher. With their tongues, they have been acting deceitfully. The venom of asps is under their lips.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Their feet are swift to shed blood.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Grief and unhappiness are in their ways.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the way of peace they have not known.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There is no fear of God before their eyes."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But we know that whatever the law speaks, it speaks to those who are in the law, so that every mouth may be silenced and the entire world may be subject to God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For in his presence no flesh shall be justified by the works of the law. For knowledge of sin is through the law.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But now, without the law, the justice of God, to which the law and the prophets have testified, has been made manifest.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the justice of God, though the faith of Jesus Christ, is in all those and over all those who believe in him. For there is no distinction.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For all have sinned and all are in need of the glory of God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> We have been justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> whom God has offered as a propitiation, through faith in his blood, to reveal his justice for the remission of the former offenses,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and by the forbearance of God, to reveal his justice in this time, so that he himself might be both the Just One and the Justifier of anyone who is of the faith of Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> So then, where is your self-exaltation? It is excluded. Through what law? That of works? No, but rather through the law of faith.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For we judge a man to be justified by faith, without the works of the law.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Is God of the Jews only and not also of the Gentiles? On the contrary, of the Gentiles also.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For One is the God who justifies circumcision by faith and uncircumcision through faith.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Are we then destroying the law through faith? Let it not be so! Instead, we are making the law stand.</p>

</body>
</html>