<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> So what shall we say? Should we remain in sin, so that grace may abound?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let it not be so! For how can we who have died to sin still live in sin?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do you not know that those of us who have been baptized in Christ Jesus have been baptized into his death?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For through baptism we have been buried with him into death, so that, in the manner that Christ rose from the dead, by the glory of the Father, so may we also walk in the newness of life.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For if we have been planted together, in the likeness of his death, so shall we also be, in the likeness of his resurrection.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For we know this: that our former selves have been crucified together with him, so that the body which is of sin may be destroyed, and moreover, so that we may no longer serve sin.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For he who has died has been justified from sin.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live together with Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For we know that Christ, in rising up from the dead, can no longer die: death no longer has dominion over him.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For in as much as he died for sin, he died once. But in as much as he lives, he lives for God.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And so, you should consider yourselves to be certainly dead to sin, and to be living for God in Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore, let not sin reign in your mortal body, such that you would obey its desires.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Nor should you offer the parts of your body as instruments of iniquity for sin. Instead, offer yourselves to God, as if you were living after death, and offer the parts of your body as instruments of justice for God.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For sin should not have dominion over you. For you are not under the law, but under grace.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What is next? Should we sin because we are not under the law, but under grace? Let it not be so!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Do you not know to whom you are offering yourselves as servants under obedience? You are the servants of whomever you obey: whether of sin, unto death, or of obedience, unto justice.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But thanks be to God that, though you used to be the servants of sin, now you have been obedient from the heart to the very form of the doctrine into which you have been received.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And having been freed from sin, we have become servants of justice.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I am speaking in human terms because of the infirmity of your flesh. For just as you offered the parts of your body to serve impurity and iniquity, for the sake of iniquity, so also have you now yielded the parts of your body to serve justice, for the sake of sanctification.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For though you were once the servants of sin, you have become the children of justice.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But what fruit did you hold at that time, in those things about which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yet truly, having been freed now from sin, and having been made servants of God, you hold your fruit in sanctification, and truly its end is eternal life.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For the wages of sin is death. But the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>