<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore, I say: Has God driven away his people? Let it not be so! For I, too, am an Israelite of the offspring of Abraham, from the tribe of Benjamin.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> God has not driven away his people, whom he foreknew. And do you not know what Scripture says in Elijah, how he calls upon God against Israel?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> "Lord, they have slain your Prophets. They have overturned your altars. And I alone remain, and they are seeking my life."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But what is the Divine response to him? "I have retained for myself seven thousand men, who have not bent their knees before Baal."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore, in the same way, again in this time, there is a remnant that has been saved in accord with the choice of grace.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And if it is by grace, then it is not now by works; otherwise grace is no longer free.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What is next? What Israel was seeking, he has not obtained. But the elect have obtained it. And truly, these others have been blinded,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> just as it was written: "God has given them a spirit of reluctance: eyes that do not perceive, and ears that do not hear, even until this very day."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And David says: "Let their table become like a snare, and a deception, and a scandal, and a retribution for them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let their eyes be obscured, so that they may not see, and so that they may bow down their backs always."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, I say: Have they stumbled in such a way that they should fall? Let it not be so! Instead, by their offense, salvation is with the Gentiles, so that they may be a rival to them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now if their offense is the riches of the world, and if their diminution is the riches of the Gentiles, how much more is their fullness?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I say to you Gentiles: Certainly, as long as I am an Apostle to the Gentiles, I will honor my ministry,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> in such a way that I might provoke to rivalry those who are my own flesh, and so that I may save some of them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For if their loss is for the reconciliation of the world, what could their return be for, except life out of death?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For if the first-fruit has been sanctified, so also has the whole. And if the root is holy, so also are the branches.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And if some of the branches are broken, and if you, being a wild olive branch, are grafted on to them, and you become a partaker of the root and of the fatness of the olive tree,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> do not glorify yourself above the branches. For though you glory, you do not support the root, but the root supports you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore, you would say: The branches were broken off, so that I might be grafted on.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Well enough. They were broken off because of unbelief. But you stand on faith. So do not choose to savor what is exalted, but instead be afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For if God has not spared the natural branches, perhaps also he might not spare you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So then, notice the goodness and the severity of God. Certainly, toward those who have fallen, there is severity; but toward you, there is the goodness of God, if you remain in goodness. Otherwise, you also will be cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Moreover, if they do not remain in unbelief, they will be grafted on. For God is able to graft them on again.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> So if you have been cut off from the wild olive tree, which is natural to you, and, contrary to nature, you are grafted on to the good olive tree, how much more shall those who are the natural branches be grafted on to their own olive tree?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, of this mystery (lest you seem wise only to yourselves) that a certain blindness has occurred in Israel, until the fullness of the Gentiles has arrived.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And in this way, all of Israel may be saved, just as it was written: "From Zion shall arrive he who delivers, and he shall turn impiety away from Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And this will be my covenant for them, when I will take away their sins."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Certainly, according to the Gospel, they are enemies for your sake. But according to the election, they are most beloved for the sake of the fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For the gifts and the call of God are without regret.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And just as you also, in times past, did not believe in God, but now you have obtained mercy because of their unbelief,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> so also have these now not believed, for your mercy, so that they might obtain mercy also.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For God has enclosed everyone in unbelief, so that he may have mercy on everyone.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Oh, the depths of the richness of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How incomprehensible are his judgments, and how unsearchable are his ways!</p>

<p><a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been his counselor?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Or who first gave to him, so that repayment would be owed?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For from him, and through him, and in him are all things. To him is glory, for all eternity. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>