<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I am speaking the truth in Christ; I am not lying. My conscience offers testimony to me in the Holy Spirit,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> because the sadness within me is great, and there is a continuous sorrow in my heart.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I was desiring that I myself might be anathemized from Christ, for the sake of my brothers, who are my kinsmen according to the flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> These are the Israelites, to whom belongs adoption as sons, and the glory and the testament, and the giving and following of the law, and the promises.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Theirs are the fathers, and from them, according to the flesh, is the Christ, who is over all things, blessed God, for all eternity. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But it is not that the Word of God has perished. For not all those who are Israelites are of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And not all sons are the offspring of Abraham: "For your offspring will be invoked in Isaac."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In other words, those who are the sons of God are not those who are sons of the flesh, but those who are sons of the Promise; these are considered to be the offspring.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For the word of promise is this: "I will return at the proper time. And there shall be a son for Sarah."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And she was not alone. For Rebecca also, having conceived by Isaac our father, from one act,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> when the children had not yet been born, and had not yet done anything good or bad (such that the purpose of God might be based on their choice),</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and not because of deeds, but because of a calling, it was said to her: "The elder shall serve the younger."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So also it was written: "I have loved Jacob, but I have hated Esau."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What should we say next? Is there unfairness with God? Let it not be so!</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For to Moses he says: "I will pity whomever I pity. And I will offer mercy to whomever I will pity."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, it is not based on those who choose, nor on those who excel, but on God who takes pity.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For Scripture says to the Pharaoh: "I have raised you up for this purpose, so that I may reveal my power by you, and so that my name may be announced to all the earth."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore, he takes pity on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And so, you would say to me: "Then why does he still find fault? For who can resist his will?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> O man, who are you to question God? How can the thing that has been formed say to the One who formed him: "Why have you made me this way?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And does not the potter have the authority over the clay to make, from the same material, indeed, one vessel unto honor, yet truly another unto disgrace?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> What if God, wanting to reveal his wrath and to make his power known, endured, with much patience, vessels deserving wrath, fit to be destroyed,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> so that he might reveal the wealth of his glory, within these vessels of mercy, which he has prepared unto glory?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And so it is with those of us whom he has also called, not only from among the Jews, but even from among the Gentiles,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> just as he says in Hosea: "I will call those who were not my people, 'my people,' and she who was not beloved, 'beloved,' and she who had not obtained mercy, 'one who has obtained mercy.'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And this shall be: in the place where it was said to them, 'You are not my people,' there they shall be called the sons of the living God."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Isaiah cried out on behalf of Israel: "When the number of the sons of Israel is like the sand of the sea, a remnant shall be saved.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For he shall complete his word, while abbreviating it out of equity. For the Lord shall accomplish a brief word upon the earth."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And it is just as Isaiah predicted: "Unless the Lord of hosts had bequeathed offspring, we would have become like Sodom, and we would have been made similar to Gomorrah."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> What should we say next? That the Gentiles who did not follow justice have attained justice, even the justice that is of faith.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Yet truly, Israel, though following the law of justice, has not arrived at the law of justice.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Why is this? Because they did not seek it from faith, but as if it were from works. For they stumbled over a stumbling block,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> just as it was written: "Behold, I am placing a stumbling block in Zion, and a rock of scandal. But whoever believes in him shall not be confounded."</p>

</body>
</html>