<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For this reason, O man, each one of you who judges is inexcusable. For by that which you judge another, you condemn yourself. For you do the same things that you judge.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For we know that the judgment of God is in accord with truth against those who do such things.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But, O man, when you judge those who do such things as you yourself also do, do you think that you will escape the judgment of God?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Or do you despise the riches of his goodness and patience and forbearance? Do you not know that the kindness of God is calling you to repentance?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But in accord with your hard and impenitent heart, you store up wrath for yourself, unto the day of wrath and of revelation by the just judgment of God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For he will render to each one according to his works:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> To those who, in accord with patient good works, seek glory and honor and incorruption, certainly, he will render eternal life.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But to those who are contentious and who do not acquiesce to the truth, but instead trust in iniquity, he will render wrath and indignation.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Tribulation and anguish are upon every soul of man that works evil: the Jew first, and also the Greek.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But glory and honor and peace are for all who do what is good: the Jew first, and also the Greek.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For there is no favoritism with God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For whoever had sinned without the law, will perish without the law. And whoever had sinned in the law, will be judged by the law.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For it is not the hearers of the law who are just before God, but rather it is the doers of the law who shall be justified.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For when the Gentiles, who do not have the law, do by nature those things which are of the law, such persons, not having the law, are a law unto themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For they reveal the work of the law written in their hearts, while their conscience renders testimony about them, and their thoughts within themselves also accuse or even defend them,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> unto the day when God shall judge the hidden things of men, through Jesus Christ, according to my Gospel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But if you are called by name a Jew, and you rest upon the law, and you find glory in God,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and you have known his will, and you demonstrate the more useful things, having been instructed by the law:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> you become confident within yourself that you are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> an instructor to the foolish, a teacher to children, because you have a type of knowledge and truth in the law.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> As a result, you teach others, but you do not teach yourself. You preach that men should not steal, but you yourself steal.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> You speak against adultery, but you commit adultery. You abominate idols, but you commit sacrilege.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> You would glory in the law, but through a betrayal of the law you dishonor God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> (For because of you the name of God is being blasphemed among the Gentiles, just as it was written.)</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Certainly, circumcision is beneficial, if you observe the law. But if you are a betrayer of the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And so, if the uncircumcised keep the justices of the law, shall not this lack of circumcision be counted as circumcision?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And that which is by nature uncircumcised, if it fulfills the law, should it not judge you, who by the letter and by circumcision are a betrayer of the law?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For a Jew is not he who seems so outwardly. Neither is circumcision that which seems so outwardly, in the flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But a Jew is he who is so inwardly. And circumcision of the heart is in the spirit, not in the letter. For its praise is not of men, but of God.</p>

</body>
</html>