<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> So then, what shall we say that Abraham had achieved, who is our father according to the flesh?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For if Abraham was justified by works, he would have glory, but not with God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For what does Scripture say? "Abram believed God, and it was reputed to him unto justice."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But for he who works, wages are not accounted according to grace, but according to debt.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yet truly, for he who does not work, but who believes in him who justifies the impious, his faith is reputed unto justice, according to the purpose of the grace of God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Similarly, David also declares the blessedness of a man, to whom God brings justice without works:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> "Blessed are they whose iniquities have been forgiven and whose sins have been covered.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Blessed is the man to whom the Lord has not imputed sin."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Does this blessedness, then, remain only in the circumcised, or is it even in the uncircumcised? For we say that faith was reputed to Abraham unto justice.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But then how was it reputed? In circumcision or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he received the sign of circumcision as a symbol of the justice of that faith which exists apart from circumcision, so that he might be the father of all those who believe while uncircumcised, so that it might also be reputed to them unto justice,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and he might be the father of circumcision, not only for those who are of circumcision, but even for those who follow the footsteps of that faith which is in the uncircumcision of our father Abraham.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For the Promise to Abraham, and to his posterity, that he would inherit the world, was not through the law, but through the justice of faith.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For if those who are of the law are the heirs, then faith becomes empty and the Promise is abolished.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For the law works unto wrath. And where there is no law, there is no law-breaking.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Because of this, it is from faith according to grace that the Promise is ensured for all posterity, not only for those who are of the law, but also for those who are of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all before God,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> in whom he believed, who revives the dead and who calls those things that do not exist into existence. For it is written: "I have established you as the father of many nations."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he believed, with a hope beyond hope, so that he might become the father of many nations, according to what was said to him: "Thus shall your posterity shall be."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he was not weakened in faith, nor did he consider his own body to be dead (though he was then almost one hundred years old), nor the womb of Sarah to be dead.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And then, in the Promise of God, he did not hesitate out of distrust, but instead he was strengthened in faith, giving glory to God,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> knowing most fully that whatever God has promised, he is also able to accomplish.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And for this reason, it was reputed to him unto justice.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Now this has been written, that it was reputed to him unto justice, not only for his sake,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> but also for our sake. For the same shall be reputed to us, if we believe in him who raised up our Lord Jesus Christ from the dead,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> who was handed over because of our offenses, and who rose again for our justification.</p>

</body>
</html>