<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And so, brothers, I was not able to speak to you as if to those who are spiritual, but rather as if to those who are carnal. For you are like infants in Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I gave you milk to drink, not solid food. For you were not yet able. And indeed, even now, you are not able; for you are still carnal.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And since there is still envy and contention among you, are you not carnal, and are you not walking according to man?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For if one says, "Certainly, I am of Paul," while another says, "I am of Apollo," are you not men? But what is Apollo, and what is Paul?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> We are only the ministers of him in whom you have believed, just as the Lord has granted to each of you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I planted, Apollo watered, but God provided the growth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And so, neither he who plants, nor he who waters, is anything, but only God, who provides the growth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now he who plants, and he who waters, are one. But each shall receive his proper reward, according to his labors.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For we are God's assistants. You are God's cultivation; you are God's construction.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> According to the grace of God, which has been given to me, I have laid the foundation like a wise architect. But another builds upon it. So then, let each one be careful how he builds upon it.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For no one is able to lay any other foundation, in place of that which has been laid, which is Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But if anyone builds upon this foundation, whether gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, or stubble,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> each one's work shall be made manifest. For the day of the Lord shall declare it, because it will be revealed by fire. And this fire will test each one's work, as to what kind it is.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If anyone's work, which he has built upon it, remains, then he will receive a reward.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer its loss, but he himself will still be saved, but only as through fire.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Do you not know that you are the Temple of God, and that the Spirit of God lives within you?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But if anyone violates the Temple of God, God will destroy him. For the Temple of God is holy, and you are that Temple.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you seems to be wise in this age, let him become foolish, so that he may be truly wise.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. And so it has been written: "I will catch the wise in their own astuteness."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And again: "The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And so, let no one glory in men.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For all is yours: whether Paul, or Apollo, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or the present, or the future. Yes, all is yours.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But you are Christ's, and Christ is God's.</p>

</body>
</html>