<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Pursue charity. Be zealous for spiritual things, but only so that you may prophesy.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For whoever speaks in tongues, speaks not to men, but to God. For no one understands. Yet by the Spirit, he speaks mysteries.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But whoever prophesies speaks to men for edification and exhortation and consolation.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Whoever speaks in tongues edifies himself. But whoever prophesies edifies the Church.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now I want you all to speak in tongues, but more so to prophesy. For he who prophesies is greater than he who speaks in tongues, unless perhaps he interprets, so that the Church may receive edification.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But now, brothers, if I were to come to you speaking in tongues, how would it benefit you, unless instead I speak to you in revelation, or in knowledge, or in prophecy, or in doctrine?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Even those things that are without a soul can make sounds, whether it is a wind or a stringed instrument. But unless they present a distinction within the sounds, how will it be known which is from the pipe and which is from the string?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For example, if the trumpet made an uncertain sound, who would prepare himself for battle?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> So it is with you also, for unless you utter with the tongue in plain speech, how will it be known what is said? For then you would be speaking into the air.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Consider that there are so many different kinds of languages in this world, and yet none is without a voice.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, if I do not understand the nature of the voice, then I shall be like a foreigner to the one with whom I am speaking; and he who is speaking will be like a foreigner to me.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So it is with you also. And since you are zealous for what is spiritual, seek the edification of the Church, so that you may abound.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For this reason, too, whoever speaks in tongues, let him pray for the interpretation.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> So, if I pray in tongues, my spirit prays, but my mind is without fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What is next? I should pray with the spirit, and also pray with the mind. I should sing psalms with the spirit, and also recite psalms with the mind.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Otherwise, if you have blessed only with the spirit, how can someone, in a state of ignorance, add an "Amen" to your blessing? For he does not know what you are saying.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> In this case, certainly, you give thanks well, but the other person is not edified.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I thank my God that I speak in tongues for all of you.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But in the Church, I prefer to speak five words from my mind, so that I may instruct others also, rather than ten thousand words in tongues.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Brothers, do not choose to have the minds of children. Instead, be free of malice like infants, but be mature in your minds.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It is written in the law: "I will speak to this people with other tongues and other lips, and even so, they will not heed me, says the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And so, tongues are a sign, not for believers, but for unbelievers; and prophecies are not for unbelievers, but for believers.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If then, the entire Church were to gather together as one, and if all were to speak in tongues, and then ignorant or unbelieving persons were to enter, would they not say that you were insane?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But if everyone prophesies, and one who is ignorant or unbelieving enters, he may be convinced by it all, because he understands it all.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The secrets of his heart are then made manifest. And so, falling to his face, he would adore God, proclaiming that God is truly among you.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> What is next, brothers? When you gather together, each one of you may have a psalm, or a doctrine, or a revelation, or a language, or an interpretation, but let everything be done for edification.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> If anyone is speaking in tongues, let there be only two, or at most three, and then in turn, and let someone interpret.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But if there is no one to interpret, he should remain silent in the church, then he may speak when he is alone with God.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And let the prophets speak, two or three, and let the others discern.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But then, if something is revealed to another who is sitting, let the first one become silent.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For you are all able to prophesy one at a time, so that all may learn and all may be encouraged.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And God is not of dissension, but of peace, just as I also teach in all the churches of the saints.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Women should be silent in the churches. For it is not permitted for them to speak; but instead, they should be subordinate, as the law also says.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And if they want to learn anything, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in church.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> So now, did the Word of God proceed from you? Or was it sent to you alone?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> If anyone seems to be a prophet or a spiritual person, he should understand these things which I am writing to you, that these things are the commandments of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> If anyone does not recognize these things, he should not be recognized.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And so, brothers, be zealous to prophesy, and do not prohibit speaking in tongues.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> But let everything be done respectfully and according to proper order.</p>

</body>
</html>