<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, called as an Apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God; and Sosthenes, a brother:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to the Church of God which is at Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints with all who are invoking the name of our Lord Jesus Christ in every place of theirs and of ours.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace and peace to you from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I give thanks to my God continuously for you because of the grace of God that has been given to you in Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By that grace, in all things, you have become wealthy in him, in every word and in all knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And so, the testimony of Christ has been strengthened in you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In this way, nothing is lacking to you in any grace, as you await the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he, too, will strengthen you, even until the end, without guilt, until the day of the advent of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> God is faithful. Through him, you have been called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And so, I beg you, brothers, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that every one of you speak in the same way, and that there be no schisms among you. So may you become perfect, with the same mind and with the same judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For it has been indicated to me, about you, my brothers, by those who are with Chloes, that there are contentions among you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now I say this because each of you is saying: "Certainly, I am of Paul;" "But I am of Apollo;" "Truly, I am of Cephas;" as well as: "I am of Christ."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Has Christ been divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I give thanks to God that I have baptized none of you, except Crispus and Gaius,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> lest anyone say that you have been baptized in my name.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I also baptized the household of Stephanus. Other than these, I do not recall if I baptized any others.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to evangelize: not through the wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ become empty.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For the Word of the Cross is certainly foolishness to those who are perishing. But to those who have been saved, that is, to us, it is the power of God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For it has been written: "I will perish the wisdom of the wise, and I will reject the discernment of the prudent."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Where are the wise? Where are the scribes? Where are the truth-seekers of this age? Has not God made the wisdom of this world into foolishness?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the world did not know God through wisdom, and so, in the wisdom of God, it pleased God to accomplish the salvation of believers, through the foolishness of our preaching.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For the Jews ask for signs, and the Greeks seek wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But we are preaching Christ crucified. Certainly, to the Jews, this is a scandal, and to the Gentiles, this is foolishness.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But to those who have been called, Jews as well as Greeks, the Christ is the virtue of God and the wisdom of God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For what is foolishness to God is considered wise by men, and that which is weakness to God is considered strong by men.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> So take care of your vocation, brothers. For not many are wise according to the flesh, not many are powerful, not many are noble.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But God has chosen the foolish of the world, so that he may confound the wise. And God has chosen the weak of the world, so that he may confound the strong.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And God has chosen the ignoble and contemptible of the world, those who are nothing, so that he may reduce to nothing those who are something.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> So then, nothing that is of the flesh should glory in his sight.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But you are of him in Christ Jesus, who was made by God to be our wisdom and justice and sanctification and redemption.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And so, in the same way, it was written: "Whoever glories, should glory in the Lord."</p>

</body>
</html>