<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Am I not free? Am I not an Apostle? Have I not seen Christ Jesus our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And if I am not an Apostle to others, yet still I am to you. For you are the seal of my Apostleship in the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My defense with those who question me is this:</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Do we not have the authority to eat and to drink?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Do we not have the authority to travel around with a woman who is a sister, just as do the other Apostles, and the brothers of the Lord, and Cephas?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Or is it only myself and Barnabas who do not have the authority to act in this way?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Who has ever served as a soldier and paid his own stipend? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat from its produce? Who pastures a flock and does not drink from the milk of the flock?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Am I saying these things according to man? Or does the law not also say these things?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For it is written in the law of Moses: "You shall not bind the mouth of an ox, while it is treading out the grain." Is God here concerned with the oxen?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Or is he saying this, indeed, for our sake? These things were written specifically for us, because he who plows, ought to plow in hope, and he who threshes, too, in hope of receiving the produce.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If we have sown spiritual things in you, is it important if we harvest from your worldly things?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If others are sharers in this authority over you, why are we not more entitled? And yet we have not used this authority. Instead, we bear all things, lest we give any hindrance to the Gospel of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Do you not know that those who work in the holy place eat the things that are for the holy place, and that those who serve at the altar also share with the altar?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> So, too, has the Lord ordained that those who announce the Gospel should live by the Gospel.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Yet I have used none of these things. And I have not written so that these things may be done for me. For it is better for me to die, rather than to let anyone empty out my glory.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For if I preach the Gospel, it is not glory for me. For an obligation has been laid upon me. And woe to me, if I do not preach the Gospel.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For if I do this willingly, I have a reward. But if I do this reluctantly, a dispensation is granted to me.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And what, then, would be my reward? So, when preaching the Gospel, I should give the Gospel without taking, so that I may not misuse my authority in the Gospel.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For when I was a free man to all, I made myself the servant of all, so that I might gain all the more.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And so, to the Jews, I became like a Jew, so that I might gain the Jews.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> To those who are under the law, I became as if I were under the law, (though I was not under the law) so that I might gain those who were under the law. To those who were without the law, I became as if I were without the law, (though I was not without the law of God, being in the law of Christ) so that I might gain those who were without the law.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> To the weak, I became weak, so that I might gain the weak. To all, I became all, so that I might save all.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I do everything for the sake of the Gospel, so that I may become its partner.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Do you not know that, of those who run in a race, all of them, certainly, are runners, but only one achieves the prize. Similarly, you must run, so that you may achieve.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And one who competes in a contest abstains from all things. And they do this, of course, so that they may achieve a corruptible crown. But we do this, so that we may achieve what is incorruptible.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And so I run, but not with uncertainty. And so I fight, but not by flailing in the air.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Instead, I chastise my body, so as to redirect it into servitude. Otherwise, I might preach to others, but become myself an outcast.</p>

</body>
</html>