<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now concerning those things that are sacrificed to idols: we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but charity builds up.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But if anyone considers himself to know anything, he does not yet know in the way that he ought to know.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For if anyone loves God, he is known by him.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But as to the foods that are immolated to idols, we know that an idol in the world is nothing, and that no one is God, except One.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For although there are things that are called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, (if one even considers there to be many gods and many lords)</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> yet we know that there is only one God, the Father, from whom all things are, and in whom we are, and one Lord Jesus Christ, through whom all things are, and by whom we are.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But knowledge is not in everyone. For some persons, even now, with consent to an idol, eat what has been sacrificed to an idol. And their conscience, being infirm, becomes polluted.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yet food does not commend us to God. For if we eat, we will not have more, and if we do not eat, we will not have less.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But be careful not to let your liberty become a cause of sin to those who are weak.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For if anyone sees someone with knowledge sitting down to eat in idolatry, will not his own conscience, being infirm, be emboldened to eat what has been sacrificed to idols?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And should an infirm brother perish by your knowledge, even though Christ died for him?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So when you sin in this way against the brothers, and you harm their weakened conscience, then you sin against Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Because of this, if food leads my brother to sin, I will never eat meat, lest I lead my brother to sin.</p>

</body>
</html>