<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For I do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, that our fathers were all under the cloud, and they all went across the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And in Moses, they all were baptized, in the cloud and in the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they all ate of the same spiritual food.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they all drank of the same spiritual drink. And so, they all were drinking of the spiritual rock seeking to obtain them; and that rock was Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But with most of them, God was not well-pleased. For they were struck down in the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now these things were done as an example for us, so that we might not desire evil things, just as they desired.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And so, do not take part in idolatry, as some of them did, just as it was written: "The people sat down to eat and to drink, and then they rose up to amuse themselves."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And let us not commit fornication, as some of them fornicated, and so twenty-three thousand fell on one day.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And let us not tempt Christ, as some of them tempted, and so they perished by serpents.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And you should not murmur, as some of them murmured, and so they perished by the destroyer.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now all of these things happened to them as an example, and so they have been written for our correction, because the final age has fallen upon us.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And so, whosoever considers himself to be standing, let him be careful not to fall.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Temptation should not take hold of you, except what is human. For God is faithful, and he will not permit you to be tempted beyond your ability. Instead, he will effect his Providence, even during temptation, so that you may be able to bear it.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Because of this, most beloved of mine, flee from the worship of idols.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Since I am speaking to those who are prudent, judge what I say for yourselves.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The cup of benediction that we bless, is it not a communion in the Blood of Christ? And the bread that we break, is it not a participation in the Body of the Lord?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Through the one bread, we, though many, are one body: all of us who are partakers of the one bread.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Consider Israel, according to the flesh. Are not those who eat from the sacrifices partakers of the altar?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> What is next? Should I say that what is immolated to idols is anything? Or that the idol is anything?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the things that the Gentiles immolate, they immolate to demons, and not to God. And I do not want you to become partakers with demons.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You cannot drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of demons. You cannot be partakers of the table of the Lord, and partakers of the table of demons.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Or should we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than he is? All is lawful to me, but not all is expedient.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> All is lawful to me, but not all is edifying.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Let no one seek for himself, but for others.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Whatever is sold in the market, you may eat, without asking questions for the sake of conscience.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> "The earth and all its fullness belong to the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> If you are invited by any unbelievers, and you are willing to go, you may eat whatever is set before you, without asking questions for the sake of conscience.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But if anyone says, "This has been sacrificed to idols," do not eat it, for the sake of the one who told you, and for the sake of conscience.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But I am referring to the conscience of the other person, not to yours. For why should my liberty be judged by the conscience of another?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> If I partake with thanksgiving, why should I be slandered over that for which I give thanks?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore, whether you eat or drink, or whatever else you may do, do everything for the glory of God.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Be without offense toward the Jews, and toward the Gentiles, and toward the Church of God,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> just as I also, in all things, please everyone, not seeking what is best for myself, but what is best for many others, so that they may be saved.</p>

</body>
</html>