<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> If I were to speak in the language of men, or of Angels, yet not have charity, I would be like a clanging bell or a crashing cymbal.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And if I have prophecy, and learn every mystery, and obtain all knowledge, and possess all faith, so that I could move mountains, yet not have charity, then I am nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And if I distribute all my goods in order to feed the poor, and if I hand over my body to be burned, yet not have charity, it offers me nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Charity is patient, is kind. Charity does not envy, does not act wrongly, is not inflated.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Charity is not ambitious, does not seek for itself, is not provoked to anger, devises no evil.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Charity does not rejoice over iniquity, but rejoices in truth.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Charity suffers all, believes all, hopes all, endures all.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Charity is never torn away, even if prophecies pass away, or languages cease, or knowledge is destroyed.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For we know only in part, and we prophesy only in part.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But when the perfect arrives, the imperfect passes away.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When I was a child, I spoke like a child, I understood like a child, I thought like a child. But when I became a man, I put aside the things of a child.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now we see through a glass darkly. But then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part, but then I shall know, even as I am known.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But for now, these three continue: faith, hope, and charity. And the greatest of these is charity.</p>

</body>
</html>