<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now concerning the collections which are made for the saints: just as I have arranged for the churches of Galatia, so should it also be done with you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> On the first day of the week, the Sabbath, let each one of you take from himself, setting aside what will be well-pleasing to him, so that when I arrive, the collections will not have to be made then.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And when I am present, whomever you shall approve through letters, these I shall send to bear your gifts to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And if it is fitting for me to go too, they shall go with me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now I will visit you after I have passed through Macedonia. For I will pass through Macedonia.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And perhaps I will stay with you, and even spend the winter, so that you may lead me on my way, whenever I depart.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For I am not willing to see you now only in passing, since I hope that I may remain with you for some length of time, if the Lord permits.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But I must remain at Ephesus, even until Pentecost.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For a door, great and unavoidable, has opened to me, as well as many adversaries.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now if Timothy arrives, see to it that he may be among you without fear. For he is doing the work of the Lord, just as I also do.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, let no one despise him. Instead, lead him on his way in peace, so that he may come to me. For I am awaiting him with the brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But concerning our brother, Apollo, I am letting you know that I pleaded with him greatly to go to you with the brothers, and clearly it was not his will to go at this time. But he will arrive when there is a space of time for him.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be vigilant. Stand with faith. Act manfully and be strengthened.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let all that is yours be immersed in charity.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I beg you, brothers: You know the house of Stephanus, and of Fortunatus, and of Achaicus, that they are the first-fruits of Achaia, and that they have dedicated themselves to the ministry of the saints.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So you should be subject also to persons such as this, as well as to all who are cooperating and working with them.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now I rejoice in the presence of Stephanus and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because what was lacking in you, they have supplied.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For they have refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore, recognize persons such as this.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla greet you greatly in the Lord, with the church of their household, where I also am a guest.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> This is a greeting from my own hand, Paul.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> If anyone does not love our Lord Jesus Christ, let him be anathema! Maran Atha.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> My charity is with all of you in Christ Jesus. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>