<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And so, brothers, when I came to you, announcing to you the testimony of Christ, I did not bring exalted words or lofty wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For I did not judge myself to know anything among you, except Jesus Christ, and him crucified.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and with much trembling.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And my words and preaching were not the persuasive words of human wisdom, but were a manifestation of the Spirit and of virtue,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> so that your faith would not be based on the wisdom of men, but on the virtue of God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now, we do speak wisdom among the perfect, yet truly, this is not the wisdom of this age, nor that of the leaders of this age, which shall be reduced to nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Instead, we speak of the wisdom of God in a mystery which has been hidden, which God predestined before this age for our glory,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> something that none of the leaders of this world have known. For if they had known it, they would never have crucified the Lord of glory.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But this is just as it has been written: "The eye has not seen, and the ear has not heard, nor has it entered into the heart of man, what things God has prepared for those who love him."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But God has revealed these things to us through his Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, even the depths of God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And who can know the things that are of a man, except the spirit which is within that man? So also, no one knows the things which are of God, except the Spirit of God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But we have not received the spirit of this world, but the Spirit who is of God, so that we may understand the things that have been given to us by God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And we are also speaking of these things, not in the learned words of human wisdom, but in the doctrine of the Spirit, bringing spiritual things together with spiritual things.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But the animal nature of man does not perceive these things that are of the Spirit of God. For it is foolishness to him, and he is not able to understand it, because it must be examined spiritually.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But the spiritual nature of man judges all things, and he himself may be judged by no man.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For who has known the mind of the Lord, so that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ.</p>

</body>
</html>