<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Above all else, it is being said that there is fornication among you, even fornication of a such kind that is not among the Gentiles, so that someone would have the wife of his father.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And yet you are inflated, and you have not instead been grieved, so that he who has done this thing would be taken away from your midst.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Certainly, though absent in body, I am present in spirit. Thus, I have already judged, as if I were present, him who has done this.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, you have been gathered together with my spirit, in the power of our Lord Jesus,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> to hand over such a one as this to Satan, for the destruction of the flesh, so that the spirit may be saved in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> It is not good for you to glory. Do you not know that a little leaven corrupts the entire mass?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Purge the old leaven, so that you may become the new bread, for you are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover, has now been immolated.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And so, let us feast, not with the old leaven, not with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> As I have written to you in an epistle: "Do not associate with fornicators,"</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> certainly not with the fornicators of this world, nor with the greedy, nor with robbers, nor with the servants of idolatry. Otherwise, you ought to depart from this world.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But now I have written to you: do not associate with anyone who is called a brother and yet is a fornicator, or greedy, or a servant of idolatry, or a slanderer, or inebriated, or a robber. With such a one as this, do not even take food.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For what have I to do with judging those who are outside? But do not even you yourselves judge those who are inside?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For those who are outside, God will judge. But send this evil person away from yourselves.</p>

</body>
</html>