<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But I determined this within myself, not to return again to you in sorrow.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For if I make you sorrowful, then who is it that can make me glad, except the one who is made sorrowful by me?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And so, I wrote this same thing to you, so that I might not, when I arrive, add sorrow to sorrow for those with whom I ought to rejoice, having confidence in you in all things, so that my joy may be entirely yours.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For with much tribulation and anguish of heart, I wrote to you with many tears: not so that you would be sorrowful, but so that you might know the charity that I have more abundantly toward you.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But if anyone has brought sorrow, he has not sorrowed me. Yet, for my part, this is so that I might not burden all of you.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let this rebuke be sufficient for someone like this, for it has been brought by many.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So then, to the contrary, you should be more forgiving and consoling, lest perhaps someone like this may be overwhelmed with excessive sorrow.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Because of this, I beg you to confirm your charity toward him.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It was for this reason, also, that I wrote, so that I might know, by testing you, whether you would be obedient in all things.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But anyone whom you have forgiven of anything, I also forgive. And then, too, anyone I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, it was done in the person of Christ for your sakes,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> so that we would not be circumvented by Satan. For we are not ignorant of his intentions.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when I had arrived at Troas, because of the Gospel of Christ, and a door had opened to me in the Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I had no rest within my spirit, because I was not able to find Titus, my brother. So, saying goodbye to them, I set out for Macedonia.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But thanks be to God, who always brings triumph to us in Christ Jesus, and who manifests the fragrance of his knowledge through us in every place.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For we are the sweet fragrance of Christ for God, both with those who are being saved and with those who are perishing.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> To the one, certainly, the fragrance is of death unto death. But to the other, the fragrance is of life unto life. And concerning these things, who is so suitable?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For we are not like many others, adulterating the Word of God. But instead, we speak with sincerity: from God, before God, and in Christ.</p>

</body>
</html>