<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But, as a help to you, we exhort you not to receive the grace of God in vain.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For he says: "In a favorable time, I heeded you; and on the day of salvation, I helped you." Behold, now is the favorable time; behold, now is the day of salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> May we never give offense to anyone, so that our ministry may not be disparaged.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But in all things, let us exhibit ourselves as ministers of God with great patience: through tribulation, difficulties, and distress;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> despite wounds, imprisonment, and rebellion; with hard work, vigilance, and fasting;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> by chastity, knowledge, and longsuffering; in pleasantness, in the Holy Spirit, and in unfeigned charity;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> with the Word of truth, with the power of God, and with the armor of justice to the right and to the left;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> through honor and dishonor, despite good reports and bad, whether seen as deceivers or truth-tellers, whether ignored or acknowledged;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> as if dying and yet truly alive; as if chastised and yet not subdued;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> as if sorrowful and yet always rejoicing; as if needy and yet enriching many; as if having nothing and possessing everything.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Our mouth is open to you, O Corinthians; our heart is enlarged.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You are not narrowed by us, but it is by your own inner selves that you are narrowed.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But since we have the same recompense, (I am speaking as if to my own sons), you, too, should be enlarged.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Do not choose to bear the yoke with unbelievers. For how can justice be a participant with iniquity? Or how can the fellowship of light be a participant with darkness?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And how can Christ join together with Belial? Or what part do the faithful have with the unfaithful?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And what consensus does the temple of God have with idols? For you are the temple of the living God, just as God says: "I will dwell with them, and I will walk among them. And I will be their God, and they shall be my people.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because of this, you must depart from their midst and be separate, says the Lord. And do not touch what is unclean.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then I will accept you. And I will be a Father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty."</p>

</body>
</html>