<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, an Apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy, a brother, to the church of God which is at Corinth, with all the saints who are in all of Achaia:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Grace and peace to you from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and the God of all consolation.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He consoles us in all our tribulation, so that we too may be able to console those who are in any kind of distress, through the exhortation by which we also are being exhorted by God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For just as the Passion of Christ abounds in us, so also, through Christ, does our consolation abound.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So, if we are in tribulation, it is for your exhortation and salvation, or if we are in consolation, it is for your consolation, or if we are exhorted, it is for your exhortation and salvation, which results in the patience endurance of the same passion which we also endure.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So may our hope for you be made firm, knowing that, just as you are participants in the suffering, so also shall you be participants in the consolation.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For we do not want you to be ignorant, brothers, about our tribulation, which happened to us in Asia. For we were weighed down beyond measure, beyond our strength, so that we became weary, even of life itself.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But we had within ourselves the response to death, so that we would not have faith in ourselves, but in God, who raises the dead.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He has rescued us, and he is rescuing us, from great peril. In him, we hope that he will continue to rescue us.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And you are assisting, with your prayers for us, so that from many persons, by that which is a gift in us, thanks may be given through many persons, because of us.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For our glory is this: the testimony of our conscience, which is found in simplicity of heart and in sincerity toward God. And it is not with worldly wisdom, but in the grace of God, that we have conversed with this world, and more abundantly toward you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For we write nothing else to you other than what you have read and understood. And I hope that you will continue to understand, even unto the end.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And just as you have acknowledged us in our role, that we are your glory, so also you are ours, unto the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And with this confidence, I wanted to come to you sooner, so that you might have a second grace,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and through you to pass into Macedonia, and to return to you again from Macedonia, and so be led by you on my way to Judea.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then, although I had intended this, did I act lightly? Or in the things that I consider, do I consider according to the flesh, so that there would be, with me, both Yes and No?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But God is faithful, so our word, which was set before you, was not, in him, both Yes and No.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you through us, through myself and Sylvanus and Timothy, was not Yes, and No; but was simply Yes in him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For whatever promises are of God are, in him, Yes. For this reason, too, through him: Amen to God for our glory.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now the One who confirms us with you in Christ, and who has anointed us, is God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he has sealed us, and he has placed the pledge of the Spirit in our hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But I call God as a witness to my soul, that I was lenient with you, in that I did not return to Corinth:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> not because we have dominion over your faith, but because we are assistants of your joy. For by faith you stand.</p>

</body>
</html>