<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> If it is necessary (though certainly not expedient) to glory, then I will next tell of visions and revelations from the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I know a man in Christ, who, more than fourteen years ago (whether in the body, I do not know, or out of the body, I do not know: God knows), was enraptured to the third heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I know a certain man (whether in the body, or out of the body, I do not know: God knows),</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> who was enraptured into Paradise. And he heard words of mystery, which it is not permitted for man to speak.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> On behalf of someone like this, I will glory. But on behalf of myself, I will not glory about anything, except my infirmities.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For even though I am willing to glory, I will not be foolish. But I will speak the truth. Yet I will do so sparingly, lest anyone may consider me to be anything more than what he sees in me, or anything more than what he hears from me.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And lest the greatness of the revelations should extol me, there was given to me a prodding in my flesh: an angel of Satan, who struck me repeatedly.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Because of this, three times I petitioned the Lord that it might be taken away from me.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said to me: "My grace is sufficient for you. For virtue is perfected in weakness." And so, willingly shall I glory in my weaknesses, so that the virtue of Christ may live within me.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because of this, I am pleased in my infirmity: in reproaches, in difficulties, in persecutions, in distresses, for the sake of Christ. For when I am weak, then I am powerful.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I have become foolish; you have compelled me. For I ought to have been commended by you. For I have been nothing less than those who claim to be above the measure of Apostles, even though I am nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the seal of my Apostleship has been set over you, with all patience, with signs and wonders and miracles.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For what is there that you have had which is less than the other churches, except that I myself did not burden you? Forgive me this injury.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, this is the third time I have prepared to come to you, and yet I will not be a burden to you. For I am seeking not the things that are yours, but you yourselves. And neither should the children store up for the parents, but the parents for the children.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And so, very willingly, I will spend and exhaust myself for the sake of your souls, loving you more, while being loved less.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And so be it. I have not burdened you, but instead, being astute, I obtained you by guile.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And yet, did I defraud you by means of any of those whom I sent to you?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I asked for Titus, and I sent a brother with him. Did Titus defraud you? Did we not walk with the same spirit? Did we not walk in the same steps?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Have you ever thought that we should explain ourselves to you? We speak in the sight of God, in Christ. But all things, most beloved, are for your edification.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yet I fear, lest perhaps, when I have arrived, I might not find you such as I would want, and I might be found by you, such as you would not want. For perhaps there may be among you: contention, envy, animosity, dissension, detraction, whispering, self-exaltation, and rebellion.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> If so, then, when I have arrived, God may again humble me among you. And so, I mourn for the many who sinned beforehand, and did not repent, over the lust and fornication and homosexuality, which they have committed.</p>

</body>
</html>