<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold, this is the third time that I am coming to you. By the mouth of two or three witnesses, every word shall stand.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have preached when present, and I will preach now while absent, to those who sinned before, and to all the others, because, when I arrive again, I will not be lenient with you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do you seek evidence that it is Christ who speaks in me, who is not weak with you, but is powerful with you?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For although he was crucified in weakness, yet he lives by the power of God. And yes, we are weak in him. But we shall live with him by the power of God among you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Test yourselves as to whether you are in the faith. Examine yourselves. Or do you yourselves not know whether Christ Jesus is in you? But perhaps you are reprobates.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But I hope you know that we ourselves are not reprobates.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now we pray to God that you shall do nothing evil, not so that we may seem to be approved, but so that you may do what is good, even if we seem like reprobates.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For we cannot do anything against the truth, but only for the truth.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For we rejoice that we are weak, while you are strong. This is also what we pray for: your perfection.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, I write these things while absent, so that, when present, I may not have to act more harshly, according to the authority which the Lord has given to me, for edification and not for destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As to the rest, brothers, rejoice, be perfect, be encouraged, have the same mind, have peace. And so the God of peace and love will be with you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the saints greet you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the charity of God, and the communion of the Holy Spirit be with you all. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>