<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And so we are making known to you, brothers, the grace of God that has been given in the churches of Macedonia.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For within a great experience of tribulation, they have had an abundance of joy, and their profound poverty has only increased the richness of their simplicity.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I bear witness to them, that they were willing to accept what was in accord with their ability, and even what was beyond their ability.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For they were begging us, with great exhortation, for the grace and the communication of the ministry that is with the saints.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And this is beyond what we had hoped, since they gave themselves, first of all to the Lord, and then also to us, through the will of God,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> so much so that we petitioned Titus, that in the same manner as he had begun, he would also complete in you this same grace.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But, just as in all things you abound in faith and in word and in knowledge and in all solicitude, and even more so in your charity toward us, so also may you abound in this grace.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I am speaking, not commanding. But through the solicitude of others, I approve of the good character of your charity.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, he became poor for your sakes, so that through his poverty, you might become rich.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And about this, I give my counsel. For this is useful to those of you who, only a year earlier, had just begun to act, or even to be willing to act.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So, truly now, accomplish this in deed, so that, in the same manner as your willing mind is prompted, you may also act, out of that which you have.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For when the will is prompted, it receives according to what that person has, not according to what that person does not have.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it is not that others should be relieved, while you are troubled, but that there should be an equality.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In this present time, let your abundance supply their need, so that their abundance may also supply your need, in order that there may be an equality, just as it was written:</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> "He with more did not have too much; and he with less did not have too little."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But thanks be to God, who has granted to the heart of Titus, this same solicitude for you.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For certainly, he accepted the exhortation. But since he was more solicitous, he went to you of his own free will.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And we have even sent with him a brother whose praise accompanies the Gospel throughout all the churches.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And not only that, but he was also chosen by the churches to be a companion for our sojourn in this grace, which is ministered by us with our determined will, to the glory of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> So let us avoid this, lest anyone disparage us over the abundance that is ministered by us.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For we provide for what is good, not only in the sight of God, but also in the sight of men.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And we have also sent with them our brother, whom we have proven to be frequently solicitous in many matters. But now there is a greater solicitousness, which is greatly entrusted to you;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and whether it concerns Titus, who is a companion to me and a helper to you, or whether it concerns our brothers, the Apostles of the churches, it is to the glory of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore, in the sight of the churches, show them the proof of your charity and of our glorying about you.</p>

</body>
</html>