<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Galatians 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Galatians 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, an Apostle, not from men and not through man, but through Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and all the brothers who are with me: to the churches of Galatia.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace and peace to you from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> who gave himself on behalf of our sins, so that he might deliver us from this present wicked age, according to the will of God our Father.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> To him is glory forever and ever. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I wonder that you have been so quickly transferred, from him who called you into the grace of Christ, over to another gospel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For there is no other, except that there are some persons who disturb you and who want to overturn the Gospel of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But if anyone, even we ourselves or an Angel from Heaven, were to preach to you a gospel other than the one that we have preached to you, let him be anathema.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Just as we have said before, so now I say again: If anyone has preached a gospel to you, other than that which you have received, let him be anathema.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For am I now persuading men, or God? Or, am I seeking to please men? If I still were pleasing men, then I would not be a servant of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For I would have you understand, brothers, that the Gospel which has been preached by me is not according to man.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I did not receive it from man, nor did I learn it, except through the revelation of Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For you have heard of my former behavior within Judaism: that, beyond measure, I persecuted the Church of God and fought against Her.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I advanced in Judaism beyond many of my equals among my own kind, having proven to be more abundant in zeal toward the traditions of my fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But, when it pleased him who, from my mother's womb, had set me apart, and who has called me by his grace,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> to reveal his Son within me, so that I might evangelize him among the Gentiles, I did not next seek the consent of flesh and blood.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Neither did I go to Jerusalem, to those who were Apostles before me. Instead, I went into Arabia, and next I returned to Damascus.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And then, after three years, I went to Jerusalem to see Peter; and I stayed with him for fifteen days.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But I saw none of the other Apostles, except James, the brother of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now what I am writing to you: behold, before God, I am not lying.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Next, I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But I was unknown by face to the churches of Judea, which were in Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For they had only heard that: "He, who formerly persecuted us, now evangelizes the faith which he once fought."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they glorified God in me.</p>

</body>
</html>