<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Galatians 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Galatians 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Stand firm, and do not be willing to be again held by the yoke of servitude.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Behold, I, Paul, say to you, that if you have been circumcised, Christ will be of no benefit to you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I again testify, about every man circumcising himself, that he is obligated to act according to the entire law.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You are being emptied of Christ, you who are being justified by the law. You have fallen from grace.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For in spirit, by faith, we await the hope of justice.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision prevails over anything, but only faith which works through charity.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You have run well. So what has impeded you, that you would not obey the truth?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> This kind of influence is not from him who is calling you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A little leaven corrupts the whole mass.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I have confidence in you, in the Lord, that you will accept nothing of the kind. However, he who disturbs you shall bear the judgment, whomever he may be.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And as for me, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still suffering persecution? For then the scandal of the Cross would be made empty.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I wish that those who disturb you would be torn away.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For you, brothers, have been called to liberty. Only you must not make liberty into an occasion for the flesh, but instead, serve one another through the charity of the Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For the entire law is fulfilled by one word: "You shall love your neighbor as yourself."</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But if you bite and devour one another, be careful that you are not consumed by one another!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So then, I say: Walk in the spirit, and you will not fulfill the desires of the flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the flesh desires against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh. And since these are against one another, you may not do whatever you want.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now the works of the flesh are manifest; they are: fornication, lust, homosexuality, self-indulgence,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> the serving of idols, drug use, hostility, contentiousness, jealousy, wrath, quarrels, dissensions, divisions,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> envy, murder, inebriation, carousing, and similar things. About these things, I continue to preach to you, as I have preached to you: that those who act in this way shall not obtain the kingdom of God.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But the fruit of the Spirit is charity, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, forbearance,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> meekness, faith, modesty, abstinence, chastity. There is no law against such things.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For those who are Christ's have crucified their flesh, along with its vices and desires.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> If we live by the Spirit, we should also walk by the Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Let us not become desirous of empty glory, provoking one another, envying one another.</p>

</body>
</html>