<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Galatians 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Galatians 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And, brothers, if a man has been overtaken by any offense, you who are spiritual should instruct someone like this with a spirit of leniency, considering that you yourselves might also be tempted.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Carry one another's burdens, and so shall you fulfill the law of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For if anyone considers himself to be something, though he may be nothing, he deceives himself.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> So let each one prove his own work. And in this way, he shall have glory in himself only, and not in another.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For each one shall carry his own burden.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And let him who is being taught the Word discuss it with him who is teaching it to him, in every good way.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Do not choose to wander astray. God is not to be ridiculed.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For whatever a man will have sown, that also shall he reap. For whoever sows in his flesh, from the flesh he shall also reap corruption. But whoever sows in the Spirit, from the Spirit he shall reap eternal life.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And so, let us not be deficient in doing good. For in due time, we shall reap without fail.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, while we have time, we should do good works toward everyone, and most of all toward those who are of the household of the faith.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Consider what kind of letters I have written to you with my own hand.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For as many of you as they desire to please in the flesh, they compel to be circumcised, but only so that they might not suffer the persecution of the cross of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And yet, neither do they themselves, who are circumcised, keep the law. Instead, they want you to be circumcised, so that they may glory in your flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But far be it from me to glory, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom the world is crucified to me, and I to the world.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision prevails in any way, but instead there is a new creature.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And whoever follows this rule: may peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Concerning other matters, let no one trouble me. For I carry the stigmata of the Lord Jesus in my body.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>