<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ephesians 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ephesians 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is just.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Honor your father and your mother. This is the first commandment with a promise:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> so that it may be well with you, and so that you may have a long life upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And you, fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but educate them with the discipline and correction of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Servants, be obedient to your lords according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in the simplicity of your heart, as to Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Do not serve only when seen, as if to please men, but act as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Serve with good will, as to the Lord, and not to men.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For you know that whatever good each one will do, the same will he receive from the Lord, whether he is servant or free.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And you, lords, act similarly toward them, setting aside threats, knowing that the Lord of both you and them is in heaven. For with him there is no favoritism toward anyone.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Concerning the rest, brothers, be strengthened in the Lord, by the power of his virtue.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be clothed in the armor of God, so that you may be able to stand against the treachery of the devil.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, against the directors of this world of darkness, against the spirits of wickedness in high places.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Because of this, take up the armor of God, so that you may be able to withstand the evil day and remain perfect in all things.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore, stand firm, having been girded about your waist with truth, and having been clothed with the breastplate of justice,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and having feet which have been shod by the preparation of the Gospel of peace.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In all things, take up the shield of faith, with which you may be able to extinguish all the fiery darts of the most wicked one.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And take up the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit (which is the Word of God).</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Through every kind of prayer and supplication, pray at all times in spirit, and so be vigilant with every kind of earnest supplication, for all the saints,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and also for me, so that words may be given to me, as I open my mouth with faith to make known the mystery of the Gospel,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> in such a manner that I may dare to speak exactly as I ought to speak. For I act as an ambassador in chains for the Gospel.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now, so that you also may know the things that concern me and what I am doing, Tychicus, a most beloved brother and a faithful minister in the Lord, will make known everything to you.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I have sent him to you for this very reason, so that you may know the things that concern us, and so that he may console your hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Peace to the brothers, and charity with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> May grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ, unto incorruption. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>