<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ephesians 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ephesians 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> By reason of this grace, I, Paul, am a prisoner of Jesus Christ, for the sake of you Gentiles.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now certainly, you have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God, which has been given to me among you:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> that, by means of revelation, the mystery was made known to me, just as I have written above in a few words.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yet, by reading this closely, you might be able to understand my prudence in the mystery of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In other generations, this was unknown to the sons of men, even as it has now been revealed to his holy Apostles and Prophets in the Spirit,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> so that the Gentiles would be co-heirs, and of the same body, and partners together, by his promise in Christ Jesus, through the Gospel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Of this Gospel, I have been made a minister, according to the gift of the grace of God, which has been given to me by means of the operation of his virtue.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Although I am the least of all the saints, I have been given this grace: to evangelize among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and to enlighten everyone concerning the dispensation of the mystery, hidden before the ages in God who created all things,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> so that the manifold wisdom of God may become well-known to the principalities and powers in the heavens, through the Church,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> according to that timeless purpose, which he has formed in Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In him we trust, and so we approach with confidence, through his faith.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Because of this, I ask you not to be weakened by my tribulations on your behalf; for this is your glory.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> By reason of this grace, I bend my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> from whom all paternity in heaven and on earth takes its name.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I ask him to grant to you to be strengthened in virtue by his Spirit, in accord with the wealth of his glory, in the inner man,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> so that Christ may live in your hearts through a faith rooted in, and founded on, charity.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> So may you be able to embrace, with all the saints, what is the width and length and height and depth</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> of the charity of Christ, and even be able to know that which surpasses all knowledge, so that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now to him who is able to do all things, more abundantly than we could ever ask or understand, by means of the virtue which is at work in us:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> to him be glory, in the Church and in Christ Jesus, throughout every generation, forever and ever. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>