<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ephesians 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ephesians 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, an Apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, to all the saints who are at Ephesus and to the faithful in Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Grace and peace to you from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavens, in Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, so that we would be holy and immaculate in his sight, in charity.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He has predestined us to adoption as sons, through Jesus Christ, in himself, according to the purpose of his will,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> for the praise of the glory of his grace, with which he has gifted us in his beloved Son.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In him, we have redemption through his blood: the remission of sins in accord with the riches of his grace,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> which is superabundant in us, with all wisdom and prudence.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> So does he make known to us the mystery of his will, which he has set forth in Christ, in a manner well-pleasing to him,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> in the dispensation of the fullness of time, so as to renew in Christ everything that exists through him in heaven and on earth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In him, we too are called to our portion, having been predestined in accord with the plan of the One who accomplishes all things by the counsel of his will.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So may we be, to the praise of his glory, we who have hoped beforehand in Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In him, you also, after you heard and believed the Word of truth, which is the Gospel of your salvation, were sealed with the Holy Spirit of the Promise.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He is the pledge of our inheritance, unto the acquisition of redemption, to the praise of his glory.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Because of this, and hearing of your faith that is in the Lord Jesus, and of your love toward all the saints,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I have not ceased giving thanks for you, calling you to mind in my prayers,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> so that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give a spirit of wisdom and of revelation to you, in knowledge of him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> May the eyes of your heart be illuminated, so that you may know what is the hope of his calling, and the wealth of the glory of his inheritance with the saints,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and the preeminent magnitude of his virtue toward us, toward we who believe in accord with the work of his powerful virtue,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> which he wrought in Christ, raising him from the dead and establishing him at his right hand in the heavens,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> above every principality and power and virtue and dominion, and above every name that is given, not only in this age, but even in the future age.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he has subjected all things under his feet, and he has made him the head over the entire Church,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> which is his body and which is the fullness of him who accomplishes everything in everyone.</p>

</body>
</html>