<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ephesians 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ephesians 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore, as most beloved sons, be imitators of God.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And walk in love, just as Christ also loved us and delivered himself for us, as an oblation and a sacrifice to God, with a fragrance of sweetness.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But let not any kind of fornication, or impurity, or rapacity so much as be named among you, just as is worthy of the saints,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> nor any indecent, or foolish, or abusive talk, for this is without purpose; but instead, give thanks.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For know and understand this: no one who is a fornicator, or lustful, or rapacious (for these are a kind of service to idols) holds an inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let no one seduce you with empty words. For because of these things, the wrath of God was sent upon the sons of unbelief.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, do not choose to become participants with them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For you were darkness, in times past, but now you are light, in the Lord. So then, walk as sons of the light.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For the fruit of the light is in all goodness and justice and truth,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> affirming what is well-pleasing to God.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And so, have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead, refute them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the things that are done by them in secret are shameful, even to mention.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But all things that are disputed are made manifest by the light. For all that is made manifest is light.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Because of this, it is said: "You who are sleeping: awaken, and rise up from the dead, and so shall the Christ enlighten you."</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And so, brothers, see to it that you walk cautiously, not like the foolish,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> but like the wise: atoning for this age, because this is an evil time.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For this reason, do not choose to be imprudent. Instead, understand what is the will of God.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And do not choose to be inebriated by wine, for this is self-indulgence. Instead, be filled with the Holy Spirit,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> speaking among yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual canticles, singing and reciting psalms to the Lord in your hearts,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> giving thanks always for everything, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to God the Father.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Be subject to one another in the fear of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Wives should be submissive to their husbands, as to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For the husband is the head of the wife, just as Christ is the head of the Church. He is the Savior of his body.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore, just as the Church is subject to Christ, so also should wives be subject to their husbands in all things.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the Church and handed himself over for her,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> so that he might sanctify her, washing her clean by water and the Word of life,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> so that he might offer her to himself as a glorious Church, not having any spot or wrinkle or any such thing, so that she would be holy and immaculate.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> So, too, husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For no man has ever hated his own flesh, but instead he nourishes and cherishes it, as Christ also does to the Church.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For we are a part of his body, of his flesh and of his bones.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> "For this reason, a man shall leave behind his father and mother, and he shall cling to his wife; and the two shall be as one flesh."</p>

<p><a id="c5_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> This is a great Sacrament. And I am speaking in Christ and in the Church.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Yet truly, each and every one of you should love his wife as himself. And a wife should fear her husband.</p>

</body>
</html>