<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philippians 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philippians 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Grace and peace to you, from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I give thanks to my God, with every remembrance of you,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> always, in all my prayers, making supplication for all of you with joy,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> because of your communion in the Gospel of Christ, from the first day even until now.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I am confident of this very thing: that he who has begun this good work in you will perfect it, unto the day of Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So then, it is right for me to feel this way about all of you, because I hold you in my heart, and because, in my chains and in the defense and confirmation of the Gospel, you all are partakers of my joy.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For God is my witness how, within the heart of Jesus Christ, I long for all of you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And this I pray: that your charity may abound more and more, with knowledge and with all understanding,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> so that you may be confirmed in what is better, in order that you may be sincere and without offense on the day of Christ:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> filled with the fruit of justice, through Jesus Christ, in the glory and praise of God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now, brothers, I want you to know that the things concerning me happened for the advancement of the Gospel,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> in such a way that my chains have become manifest in Christ in every place of judgment and in all other such places.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And many from among the brothers in the Lord, becoming confident through my chains, are now much bolder in speaking the Word of God without fear.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Certainly, some do so even because of envy and contention; and others, too, do so because of a good will to preach Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Some act out of charity, knowing that I have been appointed for the defense of the Gospel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But others, out of contention, announce Christ insincerely, claiming that their difficulties lift them up to my chains.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But what does it matter? As long as, by every means, whether under pretext or in truthfulness, Christ is announced. And about this, I rejoice, and moreover, I will continue to rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For I know that this will bring me to salvation, through your prayers and under the ministration of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> by means of my own expectation and hope. For in nothing shall I be confounded. Instead, with all confidence, now just as always, Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether by life or by death.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And while I live in the flesh, for me, there is the fruit of works. But I do not know which I would choose.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For I am constrained between the two: having a desire to be dissolved and to be with Christ, which is the far better thing,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> but then to remain in the flesh is necessary for your sake.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And having this confidence, I know that I shall remain and that I shall continue to remain with all of you, for your advancement and for your joy in the faith,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> so that your rejoicing may abound in Christ Jesus for me, through my return to you again.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Only let your behavior be worthy of the Gospel of Christ, so that, whether I return and see you, or whether, being absent, I hear about you, still you may stand firm with one spirit, with one mind, laboring together for the faith of the Gospel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And in nothing be terrified by the adversaries. For what is to them is an occasion of perdition, is to you an occasion of salvation, and this is from God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For this has been given to you on behalf of Christ, not only so that you may believe in him, but even so that you may suffer with him,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> engaging in the same struggle, of a kind which you also have seen in me, and which you now have heard from me.</p>

</body>
</html>