<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philippians 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philippians 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And so, my most beloved and most desired brothers, my joy and my crown: stand firm in this way, in the Lord, most beloved.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I ask Euodia, and I beg Syntyche, to have the same understanding in the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I also ask you, as my genuine companion, to assist those women who have labored with me in the Gospel, with Clement and the rest of my assistants, whose names are in the Book of Life.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I say, rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let your modesty be known to all men. The Lord is near.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Be anxious about nothing. But in all things, with prayer and supplication, with acts of thanksgiving, let your petitions be made known to God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And so shall the peace of God, which exceeds all understanding, guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Concerning the rest, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is chaste, whatever is just, whatever is holy, whatever is worthy to be loved, whatever is of good repute, if there is any virtue, if there is any praiseworthy discipline: meditate on these.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All the things that you have learned and accepted and heard and seen in me, do these. And so shall the God of peace be with you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now I rejoice in the Lord exceedingly, because finally, after some time, your feelings for me have flourished again, just as you formerly felt. For you had been preoccupied.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I am not saying this as if out of need. For I have learned that, in whatever state I am, it is sufficient.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I know how to be humbled, and I know how to abound. I am prepared for anything, anywhere: either to be full or to be hungry, either to have abundance or to endure scarcity.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Everything is possible in him who has strengthened me.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yet truly, you have done well by sharing in my tribulation.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But you also know, O Philippians, that at the beginning of the Gospel, when I set out from Macedonia, not a single church shared with me in the plan of giving and receiving, except you alone.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For you even sent to Thessalonica, once, and then a second time, for what was useful to me.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> It is not that I am seeking a gift. Instead, I seek the fruit that abounds to your benefit.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But I have everything in abundance. I have been filled up, having received from Epaphroditus the things that you sent; this is an odor of sweetness, an acceptable sacrifice, pleasing to God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And may my God fulfill all your desires, according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And to God our Father be glory forever and ever. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Greet every saint in Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The brothers who are with me greet you. All the saints greet you, but especially those who are of Caesar's household.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>