<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philippians 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philippians 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Concerning other things, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. It is certainly not tiresome for me to write the same things to you, but for you, it is not necessary.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Beware of dogs; beware of those who work evil; beware of those who are divisive.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For we are the circumcised, we who serve God in the Spirit and who glory in Christ Jesus, having no confidence in the flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Nevertheless, I might have confidence also in the flesh, for if anyone else seems to have confidence in the flesh, more so do I.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For I was circumcised on the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, from the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew among Hebrews. According to the law, I was a Pharisee;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> according to zeal, I persecuted the Church of God; according to the justice that is in the law, I lived without blame.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But the things which had been to my gain, the same have I considered a loss, for the sake of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yet truly, I consider everything to be a loss, because of the preeminent knowledge of Jesus Christ, my Lord, for whose sake I have suffered the loss of everything, considering it all to be like dung, so that I may gain Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and so that you may be found in him, not having my justice, which is of the law, but that which is of the faith of Christ Jesus, the justice within faith, which is of God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So shall I know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his Passion, having been fashioned according to his death,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> if, by some means, I might attain to the resurrection which is from the dead.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> It is not as though I have already received this, or were already perfect. But rather I pursue, so that by some means I might attain, that in which I have already been attained by Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Brothers, I do not consider that I have already attained this. Instead, I do one thing: forgetting those things that are behind, and extending myself toward those things that are ahead,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I pursue the destination, the prize of the heavenly calling of God in Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore, as many of us as are being perfected, let us agree about this. And if in anything you disagree, God will reveal this to you also.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yet truly, whatever point we reach, let us be of the same mind, and let us remain in the same rule.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Be imitators of me, brothers, and observe those who are walking similarly, just as you have seen by our example.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For many persons, about whom I have often told you (and now tell you, weeping,) are walking as enemies of the cross of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Their end is destruction; their god is their belly; and their glory is in their shame: for they are immersed in earthly things.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But our way of life is in heaven. And from heaven, too, we await the Savior, our Lord Jesus Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> who will transform the body of our lowliness, according to the form of the body of his glory, by means of that power by which he is even able to subject all things to himself.</p>

</body>
</html>