<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philippians 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philippians 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore, if there is any consolation in Christ, any solace of charity, any fellowship of the Spirit, any feelings of commiseration:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> complete my joy by having the same understanding, holding to the same charity, being of one mind, with the same sentiment.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let nothing be done by contention, nor in vain glory. Instead, in humility, let each of you esteem others to be better than himself.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let each of you not consider anything to be your own, but rather to belong to others.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For this understanding in you was also in Christ Jesus:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> who, though he was in the form of God, did not consider equality with God something to be seized.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Instead, he emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men, and accepting the state of a man.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He humbled himself, becoming obedient even unto death, even the death of the Cross.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Because of this, God has also exalted him and has given him a name which is above every name,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> so that, at the name of Jesus, every knee would bend, of those in heaven, of those on earth, and of those in hell,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and so that every tongue would confess that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And so, my most beloved, just as you have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but even more so now in my absence: work toward your salvation with fear and trembling.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For it is God who works in you, both so as to choose, and so as to act, in accord with his good will.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And do everything without murmuring or hesitation.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So may you be without blame, simple sons of God, without reproof, in the midst of a depraved and perverse nation, among whom you shine like lights in the world,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> holding to the Word of Life, until my glory in the day of Christ. For I have not run in vain, nor have I labored in vain.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Moreover, if I am to be immolated because of the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and give thanks with all of you.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And over this same thing, you also should rejoice and give thanks, together with me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, in order that I may be encouraged, when I know the things concerning you.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For I have no one else with such an agreeable mind, who, with sincere affection, is solicitous for you.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For they all seek the things that are of themselves, not the things that are of Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So know this evidence of him: that like a son with a father, so has he served with me in the Gospel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore, I hope to send him to you immediately, as soon as I see what will happen concerning me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But I trust in the Lord that I myself will also return to you soon.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now I have considered it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, and co-worker, and fellow soldier, and an attendant to my needs, but your Apostle.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For certainly, he has desired all of you, and he was saddened because you had heard that he was sick.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For he was sick, even unto death, but God took pity on him, and not only on him, but truly on myself also, so that I would not have sorrow upon sorrow.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Therefore, I sent him more readily, in order that, by seeing him again, you may rejoice, and I may be without sorrow.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And so, receive him with every joy in the Lord, and treat all those like him with honor.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For he was brought close even to death, for the sake of the work of Christ, handing over his own life, so that he might fulfill what was lacking from you concerning my service.</p>

</body>
</html>