<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Colossians 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Colossians 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> You masters, supply your servants with what is just and equitable, knowing that you, too, have a Master in heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Pursue prayer. Be watchful in prayer with acts of thanksgiving.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Pray together, for us also, so that God may open a door of speech to us, so as to speak the mystery of Christ, (because of which, even now, I am in chains)</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> so that I may manifest it in the manner that I ought to speak.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming this age.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let your speech be ever graceful, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you ought to respond to each person.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As for the things that concern me, Tychicus, a most beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord, will make everything known to you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I have sent him to you for this very purpose, so that he may know the things that concern you, and may console your hearts,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> with Onesimus, a most beloved and faithful brother, who is from among you. They shall make known to you everything that is happening here.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, as does Mark, the near cousin of Barnabas, about whom you have received instructions, (if he comes to you, receive him)</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and Jesus, who is called Justus, and those who are of the circumcision. These alone are my assistants, unto the kingdom of God; they have been a consolation to me.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Epaphras greets you, who is from among you, a servant of Christ Jesus, ever solicitous for you in prayer, so that you may stand, perfect and complete, in the entire will of God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I offer testimony to him, that he has labored greatly for you, and for those who are at Laodicea, and for those at Hierapolis.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Luke, a most beloved physician, greets you, as does Demas.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Greet the brothers who are at Laodicea, and Nymphas, and those who are at his house, a church.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when this epistle has been read among you, cause it to be read also in the church of the Laodiceans, and you should read that which is from the Laodiceans.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And tell Archippus: "See to the ministry that you have received in the Lord, in order to fulfill it."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The greeting of Paul by my own hand. Remember my chains. May grace be with you. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>