<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Colossians 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Colossians 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore, if you have risen together with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Consider the things that are above, not the things that are upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For you have died, and so your life is hidden with Christ in God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> When Christ, your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore, mortify your body, while it is upon the earth. For because of fornication, impurity, lust, evil desires, and avarice, which are a kind of service to idols,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> the wrath of God has overwhelmed the sons of unbelief.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You, too, walked in these things, in times past, when you were living among them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But now you must set aside all these things: anger, indignation, malice, blasphemy, and indecent speech from your mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Do not lie to one another. Strip yourselves of the old man, with his deeds,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and clothe yourself with the new man, who has been renewed by knowledge, in accord with the image of the One who created him,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> where there is neither Gentile nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian nor Scythian, servant nor free. Instead, Christ is everything, in everyone.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore, clothe yourselves like the elect of God: holy and beloved, with hearts of mercy, kindness, humility, modesty, and patience.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Support one another, and, if anyone has a complaint against another, forgive one another. For just as the Lord has forgiven you, so also must you do.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And above all these things have charity, which is the bond of perfection.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And let the peace of Christ lift up your hearts. For in this peace, you have been called, as one body. And be thankful.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let the word of Christ live in you in abundance, with all wisdom, teaching and correcting one another, with psalms, hymns, and spiritual canticles, singing to God with the grace in your hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let everything whatsoever that you do, whether in word or in deed, be done all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks to God the Father through him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Wives, be submissive to your husbands, as is proper in the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Husbands, love your wives, and do not be bitter toward them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Children, obey your parents in all things. For this is well-pleasing to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Fathers, do not provoke your children to indignation, lest they lose heart.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Servants, obey, in all things, your lords according to the flesh, not serving only when seen, as if to please men, but serving in simplicity of heart, fearing God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whatever you do, do it from the heart, as for the Lord, and not for men.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For you know that you will receive from the Lord the repayment of an inheritance. Serve Christ the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For whoever causes injury shall be repaid for what he has wrongfully done. And there no favoritism with God.</p>

</body>
</html>