<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Thessalonians 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Thessalonians 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For you yourselves know, brothers, that our acceptance among you was not empty.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Instead, having previously suffered and been treated shamefully, as you know, at Philippi, we had confidence in our God, so as to speak the Gospel of God to you with much solicitude.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For our exhortation was not in error, nor from impurity, nor with deception.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But, just as we have been tested by God, so that the Gospel would be entrusted to us, so also did we speak, not so as to please men, but rather to please God, who tests our hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And neither did we, at any time, become flattering in speech, as you know, nor did we seek an opportunity for avarice, as God is witness.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Nor did we seek the glory of men, neither from you, nor from others.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And although we could have been a burden to you, as Apostles of Christ, instead we became like little ones in your midst, like a nurse cherishing her children.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> So desirous were we for you that we were willing to hand over to you, not only the Gospel of God, but even our own souls. For you have become most beloved to us.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For you remember, brothers, our hardship and weariness. We preached the Gospel of God among you, working night and day, so that we would not be burdensome to any of you.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You are witnesses, as is God, of how holy and just and blameless we were with you who have believed.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And you know the manner, with each one of you, like a father with his sons,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> in which we were pleading with you and consoling you, bearing witness, so that you would walk in a manner worthy of God, who has called you into his kingdom and glory.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For this reason also, we give thanks to God without ceasing: because, when you had accepted from us the Word of the hearing of God, you accepted it not as the word of men, but (as it truly is) as the Word of God, who is working in you who have believed.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For you, brothers, have become imitators of the churches of God which are at Judea, in Christ Jesus. For you, too, have suffered the same things from your fellow countrymen as they have suffered from the Jews,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> who also killed both the Lord Jesus, and the Prophets, and who have persecuted us. But they do not please God, and so they are adversaries to all men.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They prohibit us to speak to the Gentiles, so that they may be saved, and thus do they continually add to their own sins. But the wrath of God will overtake them in the very end.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And we, brothers, having been deprived of you for a short time, in sight, but not in heart, have hurried all the more to see your face, with a great desire.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For we wanted to come to you, (indeed, I, Paul, attempted to do so once, and then again,) but Satan impeded us.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For what is our hope, and our joy, and our crown of glory? Is it not you, before our Lord Jesus Christ at his return?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For you are our glory and our joy.</p>

</body>
</html>