<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Thessalonians 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Thessalonians 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Because of this, willing to wait no longer, it was pleasing to us to remain at Athens, alone.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And we sent Timothy, our brother and a minister of God in the Gospel of Christ, to confirm you and to exhort you, on behalf of your faith,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> so that no one would be disturbed during these tribulations. For you yourselves know that we have been appointed to this.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For even while we were with you, we predicted to you that we would suffer tribulations, even as it has happened, and as you know.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For this reason also, I was not willing to wait any longer, and I sent to find out about your faith, lest perhaps he who tempts may have tempted you, and our labor might have been in vain.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But then, when Timothy arrived to us from you, he reported to us your faith and charity, and that you keep a good remembrance of us always, desiring to see us, just as we likewise desire to see you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As a result, we were consoled in you, brothers, in the midst of all our difficulties and tribulations, through your faith.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For we now live so that you may stand firm in the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For what thanks would we be able to repay to God because of you, for all the joy with which we rejoice over you before our God?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For night and day, ever more abundantly, we are praying that we may see your face, and that we may complete those things that are lacking in your faith.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But may God our Father himself, and our Lord Jesus Christ, direct our way to you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And may the Lord multiply you, and make you abound in your charity toward one another and toward all, just as we also do toward you,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> in order to confirm your hearts without blame, in sanctity, before God our Father, unto the return of our Lord Jesus Christ, with all his saints. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>