<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Thessalonians 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Thessalonians 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But concerning dates and times, brothers, you do not need us to write to you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For you yourselves thoroughly understand that the day of the Lord shall arrive much like a thief in the night.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For when they will say, "Peace and security!" then destruction will suddenly overwhelm them, like the labor pains of a woman with child, and they will not escape.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But you, brothers, are not in darkness, so that you would be overtaken by that day as by a thief.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For all of you are sons of light and sons of daytime; we are not of nighttime, nor of darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, let us not sleep, as the rest do. Instead, we should be vigilant and sober.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For those who sleep, sleep in the night; and those who are inebriated, are inebriated in the night.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But we, who are of the daylight, should be sober, being clothed with the breastplate of faith and of charity and having, as a helmet, the hope of salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For God has not appointed us for wrath, but for the acquisition of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> who died for us, so that, whether we watch, or whether we sleep, we may live in union with him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because of this, console one another and build up one another, just as you are doing.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And we ask you, brothers, to recognize those who labor among you, and who preside over you in the Lord, and who admonish you,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> so that you may consider them with an abundance of charity, for the sake of their work. Be at peace with them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And we ask you, brothers: correct the disruptive, console the weak-minded, support the sick, be patient with everyone.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> See to it that no one repays evil for evil to anyone. Instead, always pursue whatever is good, with one another and with all.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Rejoice always.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Pray without ceasing.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Give thanks in everything. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for all of you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Do not choose to extinguish the Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Do not spurn prophecies.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But test all things. Hold on to whatever is good.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Abstain from every kind of evil.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And may the God of peace himself sanctify you through all things, so that your whole spirit and soul and body may be preserved without blame unto the return of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He who has called you is faithful. He shall act even now.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Brothers, pray for us.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I bind you, through the Lord, that this epistle is to be read to all the holy brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>