<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Thessalonians 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Thessalonians 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But we ask you, brothers, concerning the advent of our Lord Jesus Christ and of our gathering to him,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that you not be readily disturbed or terrified in your minds, by any spirit, or word, or epistle, supposedly sent from us, claiming that the day of the Lord is close by.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let no one deceive you in any way. For this cannot be, unless the apostasy will have arrived first, and the man of sin will have been revealed, the son of perdition,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> who is an adversary to, and who is lifted up above, all that is called God or that is worshipped, so much so that he sits in the temple of God, presenting himself as if he were God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Do you not recall that, when I was still with you, I told you these things?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And now you know what it is that holds him back, so that he may be revealed in his own time.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the mystery of iniquity is already at work. And only one now holds back, and will continue to hold back, until he is taken from our midst.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And then that iniquitous one shall be revealed, the one whom the Lord Jesus shall bring to ruin with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy at the brightness of his return:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> him whose advent is accompanied by the works of Satan, with every kind of power and signs and false miracles,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and with every seduction of iniquity, toward those who are perishing because they have not accepted the love of truth, so that they may be saved. For this reason, God will send to them works of deception, so that they may believe in lies,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> in order that all those who have not believed in the truth, but who have consented to iniquity, may be judged.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yet we must always give thanks to God for you, brothers, beloved of God, because God has chosen you as first-fruits for salvation, by the sanctification of the Spirit and by faith in the truth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He has also called you into truth through our Gospel, unto the acquisition of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And so, brothers, stand firm, and hold to the traditions that you have learned, whether by word or by our epistle.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So may our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God our Father, who has loved us and who has given us an everlasting consolation and good hope in grace,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> exhort your hearts and confirm you in every good word and deed.</p>

</body>
</html>