<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Timothy 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Timothy 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> It is a faithful saying: if a man desires the episcopate, he desires a good work.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore, it is necessary for a bishop to be beyond reproach, the husband of one wife, sober, prudent, gracious, chaste, hospitable, a teacher,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> not a drunkard, not combative but restrained, not quarrelsome, not covetous;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but a man who leads his own house well, having children who are subordinate with all chastity.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For if a man does not know how to lead his own house, how will he take care of the Church of God?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He must not be a new convert, lest, being elated by pride, he may fall under the sentence of the devil.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And it is necessary for him also to have good testimony from those who are outside, so that he may not fall into disrepute and the snare of the devil.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Similarly, deacons must be chaste, not double-tongued, not given to much wine, not pursuing tainted profit,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> holding to the mystery of the faith with a pure conscience.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And these things should be proven first, and then they may minister, being without offense.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Similarly, the women must be chaste, not slanderers, sober, faithful in all things.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Deacons should be the husband of one wife, men who lead their own children and their own houses well.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For those who have ministered well will acquire for themselves a good position, and much confidence in the faith which is in Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I am writing these things to you, with the hope that I will come to you soon.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But, if I am delayed, you should know the manner in which it is necessary to conduct yourself in the house of God, which is the Church of the living God, the pillar and the foundation of truth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it is clearly great, this mystery of piety, which was manifested in the flesh, which was justified in the Spirit, which has appeared to Angels, which has been preached to the Gentiles, which is believed in the world, which has been taken up in glory.</p>

</body>
</html>