<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Timothy 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Timothy 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And so I beg you, first of all, to make supplications, prayers, petitions, and thanksgivings for all men,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for kings, and for all who are in high places, so that we may lead a quiet and tranquil life in all piety and chastity.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> who wants all men to be saved and to arrive at an acknowledgment of the truth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For there is one God, and one mediator of God and of men, the man Christ Jesus,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> who gave himself as a redemption for all, as a testimony in its proper time.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Of this testimony, I have been appointed a preacher and an Apostle, (I speak the truth, I do not lie) as a teacher of the Gentiles, in faith and in truth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore, I want men to pray in every place, lifting up pure hands, without anger or dissension.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Similarly also, women should be dressed fittingly, adorning themselves with compunction and restraint, and not with plaited hair, nor gold, nor pearls, nor costly attire,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> but in a manner proper for women who are professing piety by means of good works.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let a woman learn in silence with all subjection.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For I do not permit a woman to teach, nor to be in authority over a man, but to be in silence.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For Adam was formed first, then Eve.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Adam was not seduced, but the woman, having been seduced, was in transgression.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Yet she will be saved by bearing children, if she has continued in faith and love, and in sanctification accompanied by self-restraint.</p>

</body>
</html>