<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Timothy 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Timothy 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now the Spirit has clearly said that, in the end times, some persons will depart from the faith, paying attention to spirits of error and the doctrines of devils,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> speaking lies in hypocrisy, and having their consciences seared,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> prohibiting marriage, abstaining from foods, which God has created to be accepted with thanksgiving by the faithful and by those who have understood the truth.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For every creature of God is good, and nothing is to be rejected which is received with thanksgiving;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> for it has been sanctified by the Word of God and by prayer.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> By proposing these things to the brothers, you will be a good minister of Christ Jesus, nourished by words of faith, and by the good doctrine that you have secured.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But avoid the silly fables of old women. And exercise yourself so as to advance in piety.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the exercise of the body is somewhat useful. But piety is useful in all things, holding the promise of life, in the present and in the future.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> This is a faithful saying and worthy of full acceptance.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For this reason we labor and are maligned: because we hope in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, most especially of the faithful.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Instruct and teach these things.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let no one despise your youth, but be an example among the faithful in word, in behavior, in charity, in faith, in chastity.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Until I arrive, attend to reading, to exhortation, and to doctrine.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Do not be willing to neglect the grace that is within you, which was given to you through prophecy, with the imposition of the hands of the priesthood.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Meditate on these things, so that your progress may be manifest to all.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Pay attention to yourself and to doctrine. Pursue these things. For in doing so, you will save both yourself and those who listen to you.</p>

</body>
</html>