<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Timothy 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Timothy 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And know this: that in the last days perilous times will press near.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Men will be lovers of themselves, greedy, self-exalting, arrogant, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, ungrateful, wicked,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> without affection, without peace, false accusers, unchaste, cruel, without kindness,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> traitorous, reckless, self-important, loving pleasure more than God,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> even having the appearance of piety while rejecting its virtue. And so, avoid them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For among these are ones who penetrate houses and lead away, like captives, foolish women burdened with sins, who are led away by means of various desires,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> always learning, yet never achieving knowledge of the truth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And in the same manner that Jannes and Jambres resisted Moses, so also will these resist the truth, men corrupted in mind, reprobates from the faith.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But they will not advance beyond a certain point. For the folly of the latter shall be made manifest to all, just as that of the former.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But you have fully comprehended my doctrine, instruction, purpose, faith, longsuffering, love, patience,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> persecutions, afflictions; such things as happened to me at Antioch, at Iconium, and at Lystra; how I endured persecutions, and how the Lord rescued me from everything.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And all those who willingly live the piety in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But evil men and deceivers will advance in evil, erring and sending into error.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yet truly, you should remain in those things which you have learned and which have been entrusted to you. For you know from whom you have learned them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And, from your infancy, you have known the Sacred Scriptures, which are able to instruct you toward salvation, through the faith which is in Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> All Scripture, having been divinely inspired, is useful for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for instruction in justice,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> so that the man of God may be perfect, having been trained for every good work.</p>

</body>
</html>