<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Timothy 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Timothy 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I testify before God, and before Jesus Christ, who shall judge the living and the dead through his return and his kingdom:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that you should preach the word urgently, in season and out of season: reprove, entreat, rebuke, with all patience and doctrine.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For there shall be a time when they will not endure sound doctrine, but instead, according to their own desires, they will gather to themselves teachers, with itching ears,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and certainly, they will turn their hearing away from the truth, and they will be turned toward fables.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But as for you, truly, be vigilant, laboring in all things. Do the work of an Evangelist, fulfilling your ministry. Show self-restraint.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For I am already being worn away, and the time of my dissolution presses close.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I have fought the good fight. I have completed the course. I have preserved the faith.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As for the remainder, a crown of justice has been reserved for me, one which the Lord, the just judge, will render to me in that day, and not only to me, but also to those who look forward to his return. Hurry to return to me soon.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For Demas has abandoned me, out of love for this age, and he has departed for Thessalonica.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Crescens has gone to Galatia; Titus to Dalmatia.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Luke alone is with me. Take Mark and bring him with you; for he is useful to me in the ministry.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When you return, bring with you the supplies that I left with Carpus at Troas, and the books, but especially the parchments.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Alexander the coppersmith has shown me much evil; the Lord will repay him according to his works.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And you should also avoid him; for he has strongly resisted our words.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> At my first defense, no one stood by me, but everyone abandoned me. May it not be counted against them!</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, so that through me the preaching would be accomplished, and so that all the Gentiles would hear. And I was freed from the mouth of the lion.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The Lord has freed me from every evil work, and he will accomplish salvation by his heavenly kingdom. To him be glory forever and ever. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Greet Prisca, and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Erastus remained at Corinth. And Trophimus I left sick at Miletus.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Hurry to arrive before winter. Eubulus, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brothers greet you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> May the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. May grace be with you. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>