<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Timothy 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Timothy 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And as for you, my son, be strengthened by the grace which is in Christ Jesus,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and by the things which you have heard from me through many witnesses. These things encourage faithful men, who shall then be suitable to teach others also.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Labor like a good soldier of Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> No man, acting as a soldier for God, entangles himself in worldly matters, so that he may be pleasing to him for whom he has proven himself.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then, too, whoever strives in a competition is not crowned, unless he has competed lawfully.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The farmer who labors ought to be the first to share in the produce.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Understand what I am saying. For the Lord will give you understanding in all things.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be mindful that the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the offspring of David, has risen again from the dead, according to my Gospel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I labor in this Gospel, even while chained like an evildoer. But the Word of God is not bound.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I endure all things for this reason: for the sake of the elect, so that they, too, may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus, with heavenly glory.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> It is a faithful saying: that if we have died with him, we will also live with him.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If we suffer, we will also reign with him. If we deny him, he will also deny us.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If we are unfaithful, he remains faithful: he is not able to deny himself.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Insist on these things, testifying before the Lord. Do not be contentious about words, for this is useful for nothing but the subversion of listeners.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Be solicitous in the task of presenting yourself before God as a proven and unashamed worker who has handled the Word of Truth correctly.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But avoid profane or empty talk. For these things advance one greatly in impiety.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And their word spreads like a cancer: among these are Hymenaeus and Philetus,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> who have fallen away from the truth by saying that the resurrection is already complete. And so they have subverted the faith of certain persons.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But the firm foundation of God remains standing, having this seal: the Lord knows those who are his own, and all who know the name of the Lord depart from iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But, in a large house, there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also those of wood and of clay; and certainly some are held in honor, but others in dishonor.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> If anyone, then, will have cleansed himself from these things, he shall be a vessel held in honor, sanctified and useful to the Lord, prepared for every good work.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So then, flee from the desires of your youth, yet truly, pursue justice, faith, hope, charity, and peace, along with those who call upon the Lord from a pure heart.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But avoid foolish and undisciplined questions, for you know that these produce strife.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For the servant of the Lord must not be contentious, but instead he must be meek toward everyone, teachable, patient,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> correcting with self-restraint those who resist the truth. For at any time God may give them repentance, so as to recognize the truth,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and then they may recover from the snares of the devil, by whom they are held captive at his will.</p>

</body>
</html>