<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Titus 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Titus 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But you are to speak the things that befit sound doctrine.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Old men should be sober, chaste, prudent, sound in faith, in love, in patience.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Old women, similarly, should be in holy attire, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teaching well,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> so that they may teach prudence to the young women, so that they may love their husbands, love their children,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> be sensible, chaste, restrained, have concern for the household, be kind, be subordinate to their husbands: so that the Word of God may be not blasphemed.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Exhort young men similarly, so that they may show self-restraint.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In all things, present yourself as an example of good works: in doctrine, with integrity, with seriousness,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> with sound words, irreproachably, so that he who is an opponent may dread that he has nothing evil to say about us.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Exhort servants to be submissive to their masters, in all things pleasing, not contradicting,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> not cheating, but in all things showing good fidelity, so that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Savior in all things.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the grace of God our Savior has appeared to all men,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> instructing us to reject impiety and worldly desires, so that we may live soberly and justly and piously in this age,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> looking forward to the blessed hope and the advent of the glory of the great God and of our Savior Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He gave himself for our sake, so that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and might cleanse for himself an acceptable people, pursuers of good works.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Speak and exhort and argue these things with all authority. Let no one despise you.</p>

</body>
</html>