<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Titus 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Titus 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, a servant of God and an Apostle of Jesus Christ, in accord with the faith of God's elect and in acknowledgment of the truth which is accompanied by piety,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> in the hope of the eternal life that God, who does not lie, promised before the ages of time,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> which, at the proper time, he has manifested by his Word, in the preaching that has been entrusted to me by the command of God our Savior;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> to Titus, beloved son according to the common faith. Grace and peace, from God the Father and from Christ Jesus our Savior.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For this reason, I left you behind in Crete: so that those things which are lacking, you would correct, and so that you would ordain, throughout the communities, priests, (just as I also ordained you)</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> if such a man is without offense, the husband of one wife, having faithful children, not accused of self-indulgence, nor of insubordination.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And a bishop, as a steward of God, must be without offense: not arrogant, not short-tempered, not a drunkard, not violent, not desiring tainted profit,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but instead: hospitable, kind, sober, just, holy, chaste,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> embracing faithful speech which is in agreement with doctrine, so that he may be able to exhort in sound doctrine and to argue against those who contradict.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For there are, indeed, many who are disobedient, who speak empty words, and who deceive, especially those who are of the circumcision.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> These must be reproved, for they subvert entire houses, teaching things which should not be taught, for the favor of shameful gain.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A certain one of these, a prophet of their own kind, said: "The Cretans are ever liars, evil beasts, lazy gluttons."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This testimony is true. Because of this, rebuke them sharply, so that they may be sound in the faith,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> not paying attention to Jewish fables, nor to the rules of men who have turned themselves away from the truth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All things are clean to those who are clean. But to those who are defiled, and to unbelievers, nothing is clean; for both their mind and their conscience have been polluted.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They claim that they know God. But, by their own works, they deny him, since they are abominable, and unbelieving, and reprobate, toward every good work.</p>

</body>
</html>