<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Titus 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Titus 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Admonish them to be subordinate to the rulers and authorities, to obey their dictates, to be prepared for every good work,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to speak evil of no one, not to be litigious, but to be reserved, displaying all meekness toward all men.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For, in times past, we ourselves were also unwise, unbelieving, erring, servants of various desires and pleasures, acting with malice and envy, being hateful and hating one another.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But then the kindness and humanity of God our Savior appeared.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he saved us, not by works of justice that we had done, but, in accord with his mercy, by the washing of regeneration and by the renovation of the Holy Spirit,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> whom he has poured out upon us in abundance, through Jesus Christ our Savior,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> so that, having been justified by his grace, we may become heirs according to the hope of eternal life.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> This is a faithful saying. And I want you to confirm these things, so that those who believe in God may take care to excel in good works. These things are good and useful to men.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But avoid foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, as well as arguments against the law. For these are useless and empty.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Avoid a man who is a heretic, after the first and second correction,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> knowing that one who is like this has been subverted, and that he offends; for he has been condemned by his own judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When I send Artemas or Tychicus to you, hurry to return to me at Nicopolis. For I have decided to winter there.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Send Zenas the lawyer and Apollo ahead with care, and let nothing be lacking to them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But let our men also learn to excel in good works pertaining to the necessities of life, so that they may not be unfruitful.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All those who are with me greet you. Greet those who love us in the faith. May the grace of God be with you all. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>