<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philemon 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philemon 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy, a brother, to Philemon, our beloved fellow laborer,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and to Apphia, most beloved sister, and to Archippus, our fellow soldier, and to the church which is in your house.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace and peace to you, from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I give thanks to my God, always keeping remembrance of you in my prayers,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> (for I am hearing of your charity and faith, which you have in the Lord Jesus and with all the saints)</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> so that the participation of your faith may become evident by the recognition of every good work which is in you in Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For I have found great joy and consolation in your charity, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed by you, brother.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Because of this, I have enough confidence in Christ Jesus to command you concerning certain things,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> but I beg you instead, for the sake of charity, since you are so much like Paul: an old man and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I beg you, on behalf of my son, whom I have begotten in my chains, Onesimus.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In times past, he was useless to you, but now he is useful both to me and to you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So I have sent him back to you. And may you receive him like my own heart.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I myself wanted to retain him with me, so that he might minister to me, on your behalf, while I am in the chains of the Gospel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I was willing to do nothing without your counsel, so as not to make use of your good deed as if out of necessity, but only willingly.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So perhaps, then, he departed from you for a time, so that you might receive him again for eternity,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> no longer as a servant, but, in place of a servant, a most beloved brother, especially to me: but how much so more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore, if you hold me to be a companion, receive him as you would me.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But if he has harmed you in any way, or if he is in your debt, charge it to me.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I, Paul, have written this with my own hand: I will repay. And I need not tell you, that you are also in debt yourself, to me.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> So it is, brother. May I delight with you in the Lord! Refresh my heart in Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I have written to you, trusting in your obedience, knowing, too, that you will do even more than what I say.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But also, at once, prepare a lodging for me. For I am hoping, through your prayers, to present myself to you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Greet Epaphras, my fellow captive in Christ Jesus,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my helpers.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>