<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For this reason, it is necessary for us to observe more thoroughly the things that we have heard, lest we let them slip away.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For if a word that was spoken through the Angels has been made firm, and every transgression and disobedience has received the recompense of a just retribution,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> in what way might we escape, if we neglect such a great salvation? For though initially it had begun to be described by the Lord, it was confirmed among us by those who heard him,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> with God testifying to it by signs and wonders, and by various miracles, and by the pouring out of the Holy Spirit, in accord with his own will.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For God did not subject the future world, about which we are speaking, to the Angels.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But someone, in a certain place, has testified, saying: "What is man, that you are mindful of him, or the Son of man, that you visit him?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You have reduced him to a little less than the Angels. You have crowned him with glory and honor, and you have set him over the works of your hands.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You have subjected all things under his feet." For in as much as he has subjected all things to him, he has left nothing not subject to him. But in the present time, we do not yet perceive that all things have been made subject to him.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yet we understand that Jesus, who was reduced to a little less than the Angels, was crowned with glory and honor because of his Passion and death, in order that, by the grace of God, he might taste death for all.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For it was fitting for him, because of whom and through whom all things exist, who had led many children into glory, to complete the authorship of their salvation through his Passion.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he who sanctifies, and those who are sanctified, are all from One. For this reason, he is not ashamed to call them brothers, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> "I will announce your name to my brothers. In the midst of the Church, I will praise you."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And again: "I will be faithful in him." And again: "Behold, I and my children, whom God has given to me."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore, because children have a common flesh and blood, he himself also, in like manner, has shared in the same, so that through death, he might destroy him who held the dominion of death, that is, the devil,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and so that he might free those who, through the fear of death, had been condemned to servitude throughout their entire life.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For at no time did he take hold of the Angels, but instead he took hold of the offspring of Abraham.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore, it is fitting for him to be made similar to his brothers in all things, so that he might become a merciful and faithful High Priest before God, in order that he might bring forgiveness to the offenses of the people.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For in as much as he himself has suffered and has been tempted, he also is able to assist those who are tempted.</p>

</body>
</html>