<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For the law contains the shadow of future good things, not the very image of these things. So, by the very same sacrifices which they offer ceaselessly each year, they can never cause these to approach perfection.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Otherwise, they would have ceased to be offered, because the worshipers, once cleansed, would no longer be conscious of any sin.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Instead, in these things, a commemoration of sins is made every year.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For it is impossible for sins to be taken away by the blood of oxen and goats.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For this reason, as Christ enters into the world, he says: "Sacrifice and oblation, you did not want. But you have fashioned a body for me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Holocausts for sin were not pleasing to you.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then I said, 'Behold, I draw near.' At the head of the book, it has been written of me that I should do your will, O God."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In the above, by saying, "Sacrifices, and oblations, and holocausts for sin, you did not want, nor are those things pleasing to you, which are offered according to the law;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> then I said, 'Behold, I have come to do your will, O God,' " he takes away the first, so that he may establish what follows.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For by this will, we have been sanctified, through the one time oblation of the body of Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And certainly, every priest stands by, ministering daily, and frequently offering the same sacrifices, which are never able to take away sins.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But this man, offering one sacrifice for sins, sits at the right hand of God forever,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> awaiting that time when his enemies will be made his footstool.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For, by one oblation, he has brought to fulfillment, for all time, those who are sanctified.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now the Holy Spirit also testifies for us about this. For afterward, he said:</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> "And this is the testament which I will commit to them after those days, says the Lord. I will instill my laws in their hearts, and I will inscribe my laws on their minds.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I will no longer remember their sins and iniquities."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now, when there is a remission of these things, there is no longer an oblation for sin.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And so, brothers, have faith in the entrance into the Holy of Holies by the blood of Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and in the new and living Way, which he has initiated for us by the veil, that is, by his flesh,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and in the Great Priest over the house of God.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So, let us draw near with a true heart, in the fullness of faith, having hearts cleansed from an evil conscience, and bodies absolved with clean water.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Let us hold fast to the confession of our hope, without wavering, for he who has promised is faithful.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And let us be considerate of one another, so as to prompt ourselves to charity and to good works,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> not deserting our assembly, as some are accustomed to do, but consoling one another, and even more so as you see that the day is approaching.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For if we sin willingly, after receiving knowledge of the truth, there is no sacrifice remaining for sins,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> but instead, a certain terrible expectation of judgment, and the rage of a fire that shall consume its adversaries.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> If someone dies for acting against the law of Moses, and is shown no compassion because of two or three witnesses,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> how much more, do you think, someone would deserve worse punishments, if he has tread upon the Son of God, and has treated the blood of the testament, by which he was sanctified, as unclean, and has acted with disgrace toward the Spirit of grace?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For we know that he has said: "Vengeance is mine, and I will repay," and again, "The Lord will judge his people."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> It is dreadful to fall into the hands of the living God.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But call to mind the former days, in which, after being enlightened, you endured a great struggle of afflictions.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And certainly, in one way, by insults and tribulations, you were made a spectacle, but in another way, you became the companions of those who were the object of such behavior.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For you even had compassion on those who were imprisoned, and you accepted with gladness being deprived of your goods, knowing that you have a better and more lasting substance.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And so, do not lose your confidence, which has a great reward.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For it is necessary for you to be patient, so that, by doing the will of God, you may receive the promise.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> "For, in a little while, and somewhat longer, he who is to come will return, and he will not delay.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> For my just man lives by faith. But if he were to draw himself back, he would not please my soul."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> So then, we are not sons who are drawn away to perdition, but we are sons of faith toward the securing of the soul.</p>

</body>
</html>