<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore, holy brothers, sharers in the heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession: Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He is faithful to the One who made him, just as Moses also was, with his entire house.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For this Jesus was considered worthy of greater glory than Moses, so much so that the house which he has built holds a greater honor than the former one.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For every house is built by someone, but God is the One who has created all things.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And certainly Moses was faithful, with his entire house, like any servant, as a testimony to those things that would soon be said.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yet truly, Christ is like a Son in his own house. We are that house, if we firmly retain the faithfulness and the glory of hope, even unto the end.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Because of this, it is just as the Holy Spirit says: "If today you hear his voice,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, the very day of temptation, in the desert,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> where your fathers tested me, even though they had seen and examined my works for forty years.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For this reason, I was enraged against this generation, and I said: They always wander astray in heart. For they have not known my ways.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So it is as I swore in my wrath: They shall not enter into my rest!"</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Be cautious, brothers, lest perhaps there may be, in any of you, an evil heart of unbelief, turning aside from the living God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Instead, exhort one another every day, while it is still called 'today,' so that none of you may become hardened through the falseness of sin.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For we have been made participants in Christ. This is only so, if we firmly retain the beginning of his substance, even unto the end.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For it has been said: "If today you hear his voice, harden not your hearts, in the same manner as in the former provocation."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For some of those listening did provoke him. But not all of these had set forth from Egypt through Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So against whom was he angry for forty years? Was it not those who had sinned, whose dead bodies lay prostrate in the desert?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But to whom did he swear that they would not enter into his rest, except to those who were incredulous?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And so, we perceive that they were not able to enter because of unbelief.</p>

</body>
</html>