<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore, we should be afraid, lest the promise of entering into his rest may be relinquished, and some of you may be judged to be lacking.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For this was announced to us in a similar manner as to them. But the mere hearing of the word did not benefit them, since it was not joined together with a faith in those things that they heard.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For we who have believed shall enter into rest, in the same manner as he said: "So it is as I have sworn in my wrath: They shall not enter into my rest!" And certainly, this is when the works from the foundation of the world have been finished.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For, in a certain place, he spoke about the seventh day in this manner: "And God rested on the seventh day from all his works."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And in this place again: "They shall not enter into my rest!"</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, this is because certain ones remain who are to enter into it, and those to whom it was announced first did not enter into it, because of unbelief.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Again, he defines a certain day, after so much time, saying in David, "Today," just as it was stated above, "If today you hear his voice, harden not your hearts."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For if Jesus had offered them rest, he would never have spoken, afterward, about another day.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And so, there remains a Sabbath of rest for the people of God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For whoever has entered into his rest, the same has also rested from his works, just as God did from his.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, let us hasten to enter into that rest, so that no one may fall into the same example of unbelief.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the Word of God is living and effective: more piercing than any two-edged sword, reaching to the division even between the soul and the spirit, even between the joints and the marrow, and so it discerns the thoughts and intentions of the heart.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And there is no created thing that is invisible to his sight. For all things are naked and open to the eyes of him, about whom we are speaking.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore, since we have a great High Priest, who has pierced the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, we should hold to our confession.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For we do not have a high priest who is unable to have compassion on our infirmities, but rather one who was tempted in all things, just as we are, yet without sin.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, let us go forth with confidence toward the throne of grace, so that we may obtain mercy, and find grace, in a helpful time.</p>

</body>
</html>