<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now the main point in the things that have been stated is this: that we have so great a High Priest, who is seated at the right hand of the throne of Majesty in the heavens,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> who is the minister of holy things, and of the true tabernacle, which was established by the Lord, not by man.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices. Therefore, it is necessary for him also to have something to offer.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And so, if he were upon the earth, he would not be a priest, since there would be others to offer gifts according to the law,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> gifts which serve as mere examples and shadows of the heavenly things. And so it was answered to Moses, when he was about to complete the tabernacle: "See to it," he said, "that you make everything according to the example which was revealed to you on the mountain."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But now he has been granted a better ministry, so much so that he is also the Mediator of a better testament, which has been confirmed by better promises.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For if the former one had been entirely without fault, then a place certainly would not have been sought for a subsequent one.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For, finding fault with them, he says: "Behold, the days shall arrive, says the Lord, when I will consummate a New Testament over the house of Israel and the house of Judah,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> not according to the testament which I made with their fathers, on the day when I took them by the hand, so that I might lead them away from the land of Egypt. For they did not remain in my testament, and so I disregarded them, says the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For this is the testament which I will set before the house of Israel, after those days, says the Lord. I will instill my laws in their minds, and I will inscribe my laws on their hearts. And so, I will be their God, and they shall be my people.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they will not teach, each one his neighbor, and each one his brother, saying: 'Know the Lord.' For all shall know me, from the least, even to the greatest of them.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For I will forgive their iniquities, and I will no longer remember their sins."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now in saying something new, he has made the former old. But that which decays and grows old is close to passing away.</p>

</body>
</html>