<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now, faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not apparent.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For this reason, the ancients were given testimony.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> By faith, we understand the world to be fashioned by the Word of God, so that the visible might be made by the invisible.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> By faith, Abel offered to God a much better sacrifice than that of Cain, through which he obtained testimony that he was just, in that God offered testimony to his gifts. And through that sacrifice, he still speaks to us, though he is dead.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By faith, Enoch was transferred, so that he would not see death, and he was not found because God had transferred him. For before he was transferred, he had testimony that he pleased God.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But without faith, it is impossible to please God. For whoever approaches God must believe that he exists, and that he rewards those who seek him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> By faith, Noah, having accepted an answer about those things which were not yet seen, being afraid, fashioned an ark for the salvation of his house. Through the ark, he condemned the world, and was established as the heir of the justice that occurs through faith.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> By faith, the one called Abraham obeyed, going out to the place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> By faith, he stayed in the Land of the Promise as if in a foreign land, dwelling in cottages, with Isaac and Jacob, co-heirs of the same promise.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he was awaiting a city having firm foundations, whose designer and builder is God.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> By faith also, Sarah herself, being barren, received the ability to conceive offspring, even though she was past that age in life. For she believed him to be faithful, who had promised.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Because of this, there were also born, from one who himself was as if dead, a mulititude like the stars of heaven, who are, like the sand of the seashore, innumerable.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> All of these passed away, adhering to faith, not having received the promises, yet beholding them from afar and saluting them, and confessing themselves to be sojourners and guests upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For those who speak in this way are themselves indicating that they seek a homeland.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And if, indeed, they had been mindful of the very place from which they departed, they certainly would have returned in time.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But now they hunger for a better place, that is, Heaven. For this reason, God is not ashamed to be called their God. For he has prepared a city for them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> By faith, Abraham, when he was tested, offered Isaac, so that he who had received the promises was offering up his only son.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To him, it was said, "Through Isaac, shall your offspring be summoned,"</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> indicating that God is even able to raise up from the dead. And thus, he also established him as a parable.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> By faith, also, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, concerning future events.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> By faith, Jacob, as he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph; and he reverenced the summit of his rod.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> By faith, Joseph, as he was dying, recalled the departure of the sons of Israel, and gave a commandment concerning his bones.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> By faith, Moses, after being born, was hidden for three months by his parents, because they had seen that he was a graceful infant, and they did not fear the king's edict.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> By faith, Moses, after growing up, denied himself a place as the son of Pharaoh's daughter,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> choosing to be afflicted with the people of God, rather than to have the pleasantness of sin for a time,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> valuing the reproach of Christ to be a greater wealth than the treasures of the Egyptians. For he looked forward to his reward.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> By faith, he abandoned Egypt, not dreading the animosity of the king. For he pressed on, as if seeing him who is unseen.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> By faith, he celebrated the Passover and the shedding of the blood, so that he who destroyed the firstborn might not touch them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> By faith, they crossed the Red Sea, as if on dry land, yet when the Egyptians attempted it, they were swallowed up.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> By faith, the walls of Jericho collapsed, after being encircled for seven days.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> By faith, Rahab, the harlot, did not perish with the unbelievers, after receiving the spies with peace.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And what should I say next? For time is not sufficient for me to give an account of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel, and the Prophets:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> those who, by faith, conquered kingdoms, accomplished justice, obtained promises, closed the mouths of lions,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> extinguished the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, recovered from infirmities, showed strength in battle, turned back the armies of foreigners.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Women received their dead by means of resurrection. But others suffered severe punishment, not yet receiving redemption, so that they would find a better resurrection.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Truly, others were tested by mocking and lashes, and moreover by chains and imprisonment.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> They were stoned; they were cut; they were tempted. With the slaughter of the sword, they were killed. They wandered about in sheepskin and in goatskin, in dire need, in anguish afflicted.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Of them, the world was not worthy, wandering in solitude on mountains, in the caves and caverns of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And all these, having been proven by the testimony of faith, did not receive the Promise.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> God's Providence holds something better for us, so that not without us would they be perfected.</p>

</body>
</html>