<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In many places and in many ways, in past times, God spoke to the fathers through the Prophets;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> lastly, in these days, he has spoken to us through the Son, whom he appointed as the heir of all things, and through whom he made the world.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And since the Son is the brightness of his glory, and the figure of his substance, and is carrying all things by the Word of his virtue, thereby accomplishing a purging of sins, he sits at the right hand of Majesty on high.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And having been made so much better than the Angels, he has inherited a name so much greater than theirs.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For to which of the Angels has he ever said: "You are my Son; today have I begotten you?" Or again: "I will be a Father to him, and he shall be a Son to me?"</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And again, when he brings the only-begotten Son into the world, he says: "And let all the Angels of God adore him."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And about the Angels, certainly, he says: "He makes his Angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But about the Son: "Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of equity.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You have loved justice, and you have hated iniquity. Because of this, God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of exultation, above your companions."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And: "In the beginning, O Lord, you founded the earth. And the heavens are the work of your hands.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> These shall pass away, but you will remain. And all will grow old like a garment.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And you will change them like a cloak, and they shall be changed. Yet you are ever the same, and your years will not diminish."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But to which of the Angels has he ever said: "Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool?"</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Are they not all spirits of ministration, sent to minister for the sake of those who shall receive the inheritance of salvation?</p>

</body>
</html>