<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> May fraternal charity remain in you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And do not be willing to forget hospitality. For by it, certain persons, without realizing it, have received Angels as guests.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Remember those who are prisoners, just as if you were imprisoned with them, and those who endure hardships, just as if you were in their place.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> May marriage be honorable in every way, and may the marriage bed be immaculate. For God will judge fornicators and adulterers.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let your behavior be without avarice; be content with what you are offered. For he himself has said, "I will not abandon you, and I will not neglect you."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So then, we may confidently say, "The Lord is my helper. I will not fear what man can do to me."</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember your leaders, who have spoken the Word of God to you, whose faith you imitate, by observing the goal of their way of life:</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jesus Christ, yesterday and today; Jesus Christ forever.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Do not be led away by changing or strange doctrines. And it is best for the heart to be sustained by grace, not by foods. For the latter have not been as useful to those who walked by them.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> We have an altar: those who serve in the tabernacle have no authority to eat from it.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the bodies of those animals whose blood is carried into the Holy of holies by the high priest, on behalf of sin, are burned outside the camp.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Because of this, Jesus, too, in order to sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered outside the gate.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And so, let us go forth to him, outside the camp, bearing his reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For in this place, we have no everlasting city; instead, we seek one in the future.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore, through him, let us offer the sacrifice of continual praise to God, which is the fruit of lips confessing his name.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But do not be willing to forget good works and fellowship. For God is deserving of such sacrifices.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Obey your leaders and be subject to them. For they watch over you, as if to render an account of your souls. So then, may they do this with joy, and not with grief. Otherwise, it would not be as helpful to you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Pray for us. For we trust that we have a good conscience, being willing to conduct ourselves well in all things.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I beg you, all the more, to do this, so that I may be quickly returned to you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then may the God of peace, who led back from the dead that great Pastor of sheep, our Lord Jesus Christ, with the blood of the eternal testament,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> equip you with all goodness, so that you may do his will. May he accomplish in you whatever is pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom is glory forever and ever. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And I beg you, brothers, that you may permit this word of consolation, especially since I have written to you with few words.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Know that our brother Timothy has been set free. If he arrives soon, then I will see you with him.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Greet all your leaders and all the saints. The brothers from Italy greet you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Grace be with you all. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>