<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> James, servant of God and of our Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes of the dispersion, greetings.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My brothers, when you have fallen into various trials, consider everything a joy,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> knowing that the proving of your faith exercises patience,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and patience brings a work to perfection, so that you may be perfect and whole, deficient in nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But if anyone among you is in need of wisdom, let him petition God, who gives abundantly to all without reproach, and it shall be given to him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But he should ask with faith, doubting nothing. For he who doubts is like a wave on the ocean, which is moved about by the wind and carried away;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> then a man should not consider that he would receive anything from the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For a man who is of two minds is inconstant in all his ways.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Now a humble brother should glory in his exaltation,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and a rich one, in his humiliation, for he will pass away like the flower of the grass.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the sun has risen with a scorching heat, and has dried the grass, and its flower has fallen off, and the appearance of its beauty has perished. So also will the rich one wither away, according to his paths.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed is the man who suffers temptation. For when he has been proven, he shall receive the crown of life which God has promised to those who love him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> No one should say, when he is tempted, that he was tempted by God. For God does not entice toward evils, and he himself tempts no one.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yet truly, each one is tempted by his own desires, having been enticed and drawn away.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thereafter, when desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin. Yet truly sin, when it has been consummated, produces death.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And so, do not choose to go astray, my most beloved brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Every excellent gift and every perfect gift is from above, descending from the Father of lights, with whom there is no change, nor any shadow of alteration.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For by his own will he produced us through the Word of truth, so that we might be a kind of beginning among his creatures.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> You know this, my most beloved brothers. So let every man be quick to listen, but slow to speak and slow to anger.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For the anger of man does not accomplish the justice of God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Because of this, having cast away all uncleanness and an abundance of malice, receive with meekness the newly-grafted Word, which is able to save your souls.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So be doers of the Word, and not listeners only, deceiving yourselves.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For if anyone is a listener of the Word, but not also a doer, he is comparable to a man gazing into a mirror upon the face that he was born with;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and after considering himself, he went away and promptly forgot what he had seen.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But he who gazes upon the perfect law of liberty, and who remains in it, is not a forgetful hearer, but instead a doer of the work. He shall be blessed in what he does.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But if anyone considers himself to be religious, but he does not restrain his tongue, but instead seduces his own heart: such a one's religion is vanity.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> This is religion, clean and undefiled before God the Father: to visit orphans and widows in their tribulations, and to keep yourself immaculate, apart from this age.</p>

</body>
</html>