<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Where do wars and contentions among you come from? Is it not from this: from your own desires, which battle within your members?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You desire, and you do not have. You envy and you kill, and you are unable to obtain. You argue and you fight, and you do not have, because you do not ask.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You ask and you do not receive, because you ask badly, so that you may use it toward your own desires.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You adulterers! Do you not know that the friendship of this world is hostile to God? Therefore, whoever has chosen to be a friend of this world has been made into an enemy of God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Or do you think that Scripture says in vain: "The spirit which lives within you desires unto envy?"</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But he gives a greater grace. Therefore he says: "God resists the arrogant, but he gives grace to the humble."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, be subject to God. But resist the devil, and he will flee from you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners! And purify your hearts, you duplicitous souls!</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be afflicted: mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned into mourning, and your gladness into sorrow.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Be humbled in the sight of the Lord, and he will exalt you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Brothers, do not choose to slander one another. Whoever slanders his brother, or whoever judges his brother, slanders the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There is one lawgiver and one judge. He is able to destroy, and he is able to set free.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But who are you to judge your neighbor? Consider this, you who say, "Today or tomorrow we will go into that city, and certainly we will spend a year there, and we will do business, and we will make our profit,"</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> consider that you do not know what will be tomorrow.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For what is your life? It is a mist that appears for a brief time, and afterwards will vanish away. So what you ought to say is: "If the Lord wills," or, "If we live," we will do this or that.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But now you exult in your arrogance. All such exultation is wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore, he who knows that he ought to do a good thing, and does not do it, for him it is a sin.</p>

</body>
</html>