<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My brothers, not many of you should choose to become teachers, knowing that you shall receive a stricter judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For we all offend in many ways. If anyone does not offend in word, he is a perfect man. And he is then able, as if with a bridle, to lead the whole body around.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For so we put bridles into the mouths of horses, in order to submit them to our will, and so we turn their whole body around.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Consider also the ships, which, though they are great and may be driven by strong winds, yet they are turned around with a small rudder, to be directed to wherever the strength of the pilot might will.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So also the tongue certainly is a small part, but it moves great things. Consider that a small fire can set ablaze a great forest.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And so the tongue is like a fire, comprising all iniquity. The tongue, stationed in the midst of our body, can defile the entire body and inflame the wheel of our nativity, setting a fire from Hell.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the nature of all beasts and birds and serpents and others is ruled over, and has been ruled over, by human nature.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But no man is able to rule over the tongue, a restless evil, full of deadly poison.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> By it we bless God the Father, and by it we speak evil of men, who have been made in the likeness of God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> From the same mouth proceeds blessing and cursing. My brothers, these things ought not to be so!</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Does a fountain emit, out of the same opening, both sweet and bitter water?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My brothers, can the fig tree yield grapes? Or the vine, figs? Then neither is salt water able to produce fresh water.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who is wise and well-taught among you? Let him show, by means of good conversation, his work in the meekness of wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But if you hold a bitter zeal, and if there is contention in your hearts, then do not boast and do not be liars against the truth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For this is not wisdom, descending from above, but rather it is earthly, beastly, and diabolical.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For wherever envy and contention is, there too is inconstancy and every depraved work.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But within the wisdom that is from above, certainly, chastity is first, and next peacefulness, meekness, openness, consenting to what is good, a plenitude of mercy and good fruits, not judging, without falseness.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And so the fruit of justice is sown in peace by those who make peace.</p>

</body>
</html>