<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Act now, you who are wealthy! Weep and wail in your miseries, which will soon come upon you!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Your riches have been corrupted, and your garments have been eaten by moths.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Your gold and silver have rusted, and their rust will be a testimony against you, and it will eat away at your flesh like fire. You have stored up wrath for yourselves unto the last days.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Consider the pay of the workers who reaped your fields: it has been misappropriated by you; it cries out. And their cry has entered into the ears of the Lord of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You have feasted upon the earth, and you have nourished your hearts with luxuries, unto the day of slaughter.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You led away and killed the Just One, and he did not resist you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, be patient, brothers, until the advent of the Lord. Consider that the farmer anticipates the precious fruit of the earth, waiting patiently, until he receives the early and the late rains.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore, you too should be patient and should strengthen your hearts. For the advent of the Lord draws near.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Brothers, do not complain against one another, so that you may not be judged. Behold, the judge stands before the door.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My brothers, consider the Prophets, who spoke in the name of the Lord, as an example of departing from evil, of labor, and of patience.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Consider that we beatify those who have endured. You have heard of the patient suffering of Job. And you have seen the end of the Lord, that the Lord is merciful and compassionate.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But before all things, my brothers, do not choose to swear, neither by heaven, nor by the earth, nor in any other oath. But let your word 'Yes' be yes, and your word 'No' be no, so that you may not fall under judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Is any of you sad? Let him pray. Is he even-tempered? Let him sing psalms.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Is anyone ill among you? Let him bring in the priests of the Church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And a prayer of faith will save the infirm, and the Lord will alleviate him. And if he has sins, these will be forgiven him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, confess your sins to one another, and pray for one another, so that you may be saved. For the unremitting prayer of a just person prevails over many things.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Elijah was a mortal man like us, and in prayer he prayed that it would not rain upon the earth. And it did not rain for three years and six months.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he prayed again. And the heavens gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> My brothers, if anyone of you strays from the truth, and if someone converts him,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> he ought to know that whoever causes a sinner to be converted from the error of his ways will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins.</p>

</body>
</html>