<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Peter 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Peter 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Since Christ has suffered in the flesh, you also should be armed with the same intention. For he who suffers in the flesh desists from sin,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> so that now he may live, for the remainder of his time in the flesh, not by the desires of men, but by the will of God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the time that has passed is sufficient to have fulfilled the will of the Gentiles, those who have walked in luxuries, lusts, intoxication, feasting, drinking, and the illicit worship of idols.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> About this, they wonder why you do not rush with them into the same confusion of indulgences, blaspheming.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But they must render an account to him who is prepared to judge the living and the dead.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For because of this, the Gospel was also preached to the dead, so that they might be judged, certainly, just like men in the flesh, yet also, so that they might live according to God, in the Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But the end of everything draws near. And so, be prudent, and be vigilant in your prayers.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But, before all things, have a constant mutual charity among yourselves. For love covers a multitude of sins.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Show hospitality to one another without complaining.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Just as each of you has received grace, minister in the same way to one another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When anyone speaks, it should be like words of God. When anyone ministers, it should be from the virtue that God provides, so that in all things God may be honored through Jesus Christ. To him is glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Most beloved, do not choose to sojourn in the passion which is a temptation to you, as if something new might happen to you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But instead, commune in the Passion of Christ, and be glad that, when his glory will be revealed, you too may rejoice with exultation.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If you are reproached for the name of Christ, you will be blessed, because that which is of the honor, glory, and power of God, and that which is of his Spirit, rests upon you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But let none of you suffer for being a murderer, or a thief, or a slanderer, or one who covets what belongs to another.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But if one of you suffers for being a Christian, he should not be ashamed. Instead, he should glorify God in that name.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For it is time that judgment begin at the house of God. And if it is first from us, what shall be the end of those who do not believe the Gospel of God?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And if the just man will scarcely be saved, where will the impious and the sinner appear?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore, too, let those who suffer according to the will of God commend their souls by good deeds to the faithful Creator.</p>

</body>
</html>