<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Peter 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Peter 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore, set aside all malice and all deceitfulness, as well as falseness and envy and every detraction.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Like newborn infants, desire the milk of reasonableness without guile, so that by this you may increase unto salvation,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> if it is true that you have tasted that the Lord is sweet.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And approaching him as if he were a living stone, rejected by men, certainly, but elect and honored by God,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> be also yourselves like living stones, built upon him, a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, so as to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Because of this, Scripture asserts: "Behold, I am setting in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect, precious. And whoever will have believed in him will not be confounded."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, to you who believe, he is honor. But to those who do not believe, the stone which the builders have rejected, the same has been made into the head of the corner,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and a stone of offense, and a rock of scandal, to those who are offended by the Word; neither do they believe, though they also have been built upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, an acquired people, so that you may announce the virtues of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Though in past times you were not a people, yet now you are the people of God. Though you had not obtained mercy, yet now you have obtained mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Most beloved, I beg you, as new arrivals and sojourners, to abstain from carnal desires, which battle against the soul.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Keep your behavior among the Gentiles to what is good, so that, when they slander you as if you were evildoers, they may, by the good works that are seen in you, glorify God on the day of visitation.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore, be subject to every human creature because of God, whether it is to the king as preeminent,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> or to leaders as having been sent from him for vindication over evildoers, it is truly for the praise of what is good.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For such is the will of God, that by doing good you may bring about the silence of imprudent and ignorant men,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> in an open manner, and not as if cloaking malice with liberty, but like servants of God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Honor everyone. Love brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the king.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and meek, but also to the unruly.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For this is grace: when, because of God, a man willingly endures sorrows, suffering injustice.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For what glory is there, if you sin and then suffer a beating? But if you do well and suffer patiently, this is grace with God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For you have been called to this because Christ also suffered for us, leaving you an example, so that you would follow in his footsteps.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And when evil was spoken against him, he did not speak evil. When he suffered, he did not threaten. Then he handed himself over to him who judged him unjustly.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He himself bore our sins in his body upon the tree, so that we, having died to sin, would live for justice. By his wounds, you have been healed.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For you were like wandering sheep. But now you have been turned back toward the Pastor and the Bishop of your souls.</p>

</body>
</html>