<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Peter 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Peter 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore, I beg the elders who are among you, as one who is also an elder and a witness of the Passion of Christ, who also shares in that glory which is to be revealed in the future:</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> pasture the flock of God that is among you, providing for it, not as a requirement, but willingly, in accord with God, and not for the sake of tainted profit, but freely,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> not so as to dominate by means of the clerical state, but so as to be formed into a flock from the heart.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when the Leader of pastors will have appeared, you shall secure an unfading crown of glory.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Similarly, young persons, be subject to the elders. And infuse all humility among one another, for God resists the arrogant, but to the humble he gives grace.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And so, be humbled under the powerful hand of God, so that he may exalt you in the time of visitation.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Cast all your cares upon him, for he takes care of you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be sober and vigilant. For your adversary, the devil, is like a roaring lion, traveling around and seeking those whom he might devour.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Resist him by being strong in faith, being aware that the same passions afflict those who are your brothers in the world.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But the God of all grace, who has called us to his eternal glory in Christ Jesus, will himself perfect, confirm, and establish us, after a brief time of suffering.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have written briefly, through Sylvanus, whom I consider to be a faithful brother to you, begging and testifying that this is the true grace of God, in which you have been established.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The Church which is in Babylon, elect together with you, greets you, as does my son, Mark.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Greet one another with a holy kiss. Grace be to all of you who are in Christ Jesus. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>