<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Peter 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Peter 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Peter, Apostle of Jesus Christ, to the newly-arrived elect of the dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> in accord with the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit, with the obedience and the sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: May grace and peace be multiplied for you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his great mercy has regenerated us into a living hope, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> unto an incorruptible and undefiled and unfading inheritance, which is reserved for you in heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By the power of God, you are guarded through faith for a salvation which is ready to be revealed in the end time.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In this, you should exult, if now, for a brief time, it is necessary to be made sorrowful by various trials,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> so that the testing of your faith, which is much more precious than gold tested by fire, may be found in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For though you have not seen him, you love him. In him also, though you do not see him, you now believe. And in believing, you shall exult with an inexpressible and glorious joy,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> returning with the goal of your faith, the salvation of souls.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> About this salvation, the prophets inquired and diligently searched, those who prophesied about the future grace in you,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> inquiring as to what type of condition was signified to them by the Spirit of Christ, when foretelling those sufferings that are in Christ, as well as the subsequent glories.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> To them, it was revealed that they were ministering, not for themselves, but for you those things which have now been announced to you through those who have preached the Gospel to you, through the Holy Spirit, who was sent down from heaven to the One upon whom the Angels desire to gaze.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For this reason, gird the waist of your mind, be sober, and hope perfectly in the grace that is offered to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Be like sons of obedience, not conforming to the desires of your former ignorance,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> but in accord with him who has called you: the Holy One. And in every behavior, you yourself must be holy,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for it is written: "You shall be holy, for I am Holy."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And if you invoke as Father him who, without showing favoritism to persons, judges according to each one's work, then act in fear during the time of your sojourning here.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For you know that it was not with corruptible gold or silver that you were redeemed away from your useless behavior in the traditions of your fathers,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> but it was with the precious blood of Christ, an immaculate and undefiled lamb,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> foreknown, certainly, before the foundation of the world, and made manifest in these latter times for your sake.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Through him, you have been faithful to God, who raised him up from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope would be in God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So chastise your souls with the obedience of charity, in fraternal love, and love one another from a simple heart, attentively.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For you have been born again, not from corruptible seed, but from what is incorruptible, from the Word of God, living and remaining for all eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For all flesh is like the grass and all its glory is like the flower of the grass. The grass withers and its flower falls away.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But the Word of the Lord endures for eternity. And this is the Word that has been evangelized to you.</p>

</body>
</html>