<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Peter 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Peter 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But there were also false prophets among the people, just as there will be among you lying teachers, who will introduce divisions of perdition, and they will deny him who bought them, the Lord, bringing upon themselves swift destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And many persons will follow their indulgences; through such persons, the way of truth will be blasphemed.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And in avarice, they will negotiate about you with false words. Their judgment, in the near future, is not delayed, and their perdition does not sleep.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For God did not spare those Angels who sinned, but instead delivered them, as if dragged down by infernal ropes, into the torments of the underworld, to be reserved unto judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he did not spare the original world, but he preserved the eighth one, Noah, the herald of justice, bringing the flood upon the world of the impious.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he reduced the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to ashes, condemning them to be overthrown, setting them as an example to anyone who might act impiously.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he rescued a just man, Lot, who was oppressed by the unjust and lewd behavior of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For in seeing and in hearing, he was just, though he lived with those who, from day to day, crucified the just soul with works of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thus, the Lord knows how to rescue the pious from trials, and how to reserve the iniquitous for torments on the day of judgment;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> even more so, those who walk after the flesh in unclean desires, and who despise proper authority. Boldly pleasing themselves, they do not dread to introduce divisions by blaspheming;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> whereas the Angels, who are greater in strength and virtue, did not bring against themselves such a deplorable judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yet truly, these others, like irrational beasts, naturally fall into traps and into ruin by blaspheming whatever they do not understand, and so they shall perish in their corruption,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> receiving the reward of injustice, the fruition of valuing the delights of the day: defilements and stains, overflowing with self-indulgences, taking pleasure in their feasts with you,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> having eyes full of adultery and of incessant offenses, luring unstable souls, having a heart well-trained in avarice, sons of curses!</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Abandoning the straight path, they wandered astray, having followed the way of Balaam, the son of Beor, who loved the wages of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yet truly, he had a correction of his madness: the mute animal under the yoke, which, by speaking with a human voice, forbid the folly of the prophet.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> These ones are like fountains without water, and like clouds stirred up by whirlwinds. For them, the mist of darkness is reserved.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For, speaking with the arrogance of vanity, they lure, by the desires of fleshly pleasures, those who are fleeing to some extent, who are being turned from error,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> promising them freedoms, while they themselves are the servants of corruption. For by whatever a man is overcome, of this also is he the servant.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For if, after taking refuge from the defilements of the world in the understanding of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they again become entangled and overcome by these things, then the latter state becomes worse than the former.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For it would have been better for them not to have known the way of justice than, after acknowledging it, to turn away from that holy commandment which was handed on to them.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For the truth of the proverb has happened to them: The dog has returned to his own vomit, and the washed sow has returned to her wallowing in the mud.</p>

</body>
</html>