<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Peter 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Peter 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Simon Peter, servant and Apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have been allotted an equal faith with us in the justice of our God and in our Savior Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Grace to you. And may peace be fulfilled according to the plan of God and of Christ Jesus our Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> in the same manner that all things which are for life and piety have been given to us by his Divine virtue, through the plan of him who has called us to our own glory and virtue.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Through Christ, he has given us the greatest and most precious promises, so that by these things you may become sharers in the Divine Nature, fleeing from the corruption of that desire which is in the world.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But as for you, taking up every concern, minister virtue in your faith; and in virtue, knowledge;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and in knowledge, moderation; and in moderation, patience; and in patience, piety;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and in piety, love of brotherhood; and in love of brotherhood, charity.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For if these things are with you, and if they abound, they will cause you to be neither empty, nor without fruit, within the plan of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he who does not have these things at hand is blind and groping, being forgetful of his purification from his former offenses.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because of this, brothers, be all the more diligent, so that by good works you may make certain your calling and election. For in doing these things, you do not sin at any time.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For in this way, you shall be provided abundantly with an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For this reason, I will always begin to admonish you about these things, even though, certainly, you know them and are confirmed in the present truth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But I consider it just, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up with admonishments.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For it is certain that the laying to rest of this, my tabernacle, is approaching swiftly, just as our Lord Jesus Christ has also indicated to me.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore, I will present a work for you to have, so that, frequently after my passing, you may call to mind these things.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For it was not by following fanciful doctrines that we made known to you the power and presence of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were made eyewitnesses of his greatness.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For he received honor and glory from God the Father, whose voice descended to him from the magnificent glory: "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Listen to him."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> We also heard this voice conveyed from heaven, when we were with him on the holy mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And so, we have an even firmer prophetic word, to which you would do well to listen, as to a light shining within a dark place, until the day dawns, and the daystar rises, in your hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Understand this first: that every prophecy of Scripture does not result from one's own interpretation.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For prophecy was not conveyed by human will at any time. Instead, holy men were speaking about God while inspired by the Holy Spirit.</p>

</body>
</html>