<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 John 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 John 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He who was from the beginning, whom we have heard, whom we have seen with our eyes, upon whom we have gazed, and whom our hands have certainly touched: He is the Word of Life.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And that Life has been made manifest. And we have seen, and we testify, and we announce to you: the Eternal Life, who was with the Father, and who appeared to us.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He whom we have seen and heard, we announce to you, so that you, too, may have fellowship with us, and so that our fellowship may be with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And this we write to you, so that you may rejoice, and so that your joy may be full.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And this is the announcement which we have heard from him, and which we announce to you: that God is light, and in him there is no darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If we claim that we have fellowship with him, and yet we walk in darkness, then we are lying and not telling the truth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But if we walk in the light, just as he also is in the light, then we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, cleanses us from all sin.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If we claim that we have no sin, then we are deceiving ourselves and the truth is not in us.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If we confess our sins, then he is faithful and just, so as to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If we claim that we have not sinned, then we make him a liar, and his Word is not in us.</p>

</body>
</html>