<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 John 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 John 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ, is born of God. And everyone who loves God, who provides that birth, also loves him who has been born of God.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In this way, we know that we love those born of God: when we love God and do his commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For this is the love of God: that we keep his commandments. And his commandments are not heavy.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For all that is born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that overcomes the world: our faith.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who is it that overcomes the world? Only he who believes that Jesus is the Son of God!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This is the One who came by water and blood: Jesus Christ. Not by water only, but by water and blood. And the Spirit is the One who testifies that the Christ is the Truth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For there are Three who give testimony in heaven: the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit. And these Three are One.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there are three who give testimony on earth: the Spirit, and the water, and the blood. And these three are one.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If we accept the testimony of men, then the testimony of God is greater. For this is the testimony of God, which is greater: that he has testified about his Son.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Whoever believes in the Son of God, holds the testimony of God within himself. Whoever does not believe in the Son, makes him a liar, because he does not believe in the testimony which God has testified about his Son.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And this is the testimony which God has given to us: Eternal Life. And this Life is in his Son.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Whoever has the Son, has Life. Whoever does not have the Son, does not have Life.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I am writing this to you, so that you may know that you have Eternal Life: you who believe in the name of the Son of God.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And this is the confidence which we have toward God: that no matter what we shall request, in accord with his will, he hears us.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And we know that he hears us, no matter what we request; so we know that we can obtain the things that we request of him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Anyone who realizes that his brother has sinned, with a sin that is not unto death, let him pray, and life shall be given to him who has sinned not unto death. There is a sin which is unto death. I am not saying that anyone should ask on behalf of that sin.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All that is iniquity is sin. But there is a sin unto death.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> We know that everyone who is born of God does not sin. Instead, rebirth in God preserves him, and the evil one cannot touch him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> We know that we are of God, and that the entire world is established in wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And we know that the Son of God has arrived, and that he has given us understanding, so that we may know the true God, and so that we may remain in his true Son. This is the true God, and this is Eternal Life.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Little sons, keep yourselves from false worship. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>