<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 John 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 John 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Elder to the Elect Lady, and those born of her, whom I love in the truth: and not I alone, but also all those who have known the truth,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> because the truth which dwells in us shall be with us for eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> May grace, mercy, and peace be with you from God the Father, and from Christ Jesus, the Son of the Father, in truth and in love.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I was very glad because I discovered some of your sons walking in the truth, just as we received the commandment from the Father.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And now I petition you, Lady, not as if writing a new commandment to you, but instead that commandment which we have had from the beginning: that we love one another.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And this is love: that we walk according to his commandments. For this is the commandment that you have heard in the same way from the beginning, and in which you should walk.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who do not confess that Jesus Christ has arrived in the flesh. Such a one as this is a deceiver and an antichrist.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be cautious for yourselves, lest you lose what you have accomplished, and so that, instead, you may receive a full reward.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Everyone who withdraws and does not remain in the doctrine of Christ, does not have God. Whoever remains in the doctrine, such a one as this has both the Father and the Son.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If anyone comes to you, and does not bring this doctrine, do not be willing to receive him into the house, and do not speak a greeting to him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For whoever speaks a greeting to him, is speaking with his evil works.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have much more to write to you, but I am not willing to do so through paper and ink. For I hope that I may be with you in the future, and that I may speak face to face, so that your joy may be full.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The sons of your Elect Sister greet you.</p>

</body>
</html>