<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I saw seven Angels standing in the sight of God. And seven trumpets were given to them.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And another Angel approached, and he stood before the altar, holding a golden censer. And much incense was given to him, so that he might offer upon the golden altar, which is before the throne of God, the prayers of all the saints.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the smoke of the incense of the prayers of the saints ascended, in the presence of God, from the hand of the Angel.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Angel received the golden censer, and he filled it from the fire of the altar, and he cast it down upon the earth, and there were thunders and voices and lightnings and a great earthquake.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the seven Angels who hold the seven trumpets prepared themselves, in order to sound the trumpet.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the first Angel sounded the trumpet. And there came hail and fire, mixed with blood; and it was cast down upon the earth. And a third part of the earth was burned, and a third part of the trees was entirely burned up, and all the green plants were burned.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the second Angel sounded the trumpet. And something like a great mountain, burning with fire, was cast down into the sea. And a third part of the sea became like blood.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And a third part of the creatures that were living in the sea died. And a third part of the ships were destroyed.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the third Angel sounded the trumpet. And a great star fell from heaven, burning like a torch. And it fell upon a third part of the rivers and upon the sources of water.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the name of the star is called Wormwood. And a third part of the waters were turned into wormwood. And many men died from the waters, because they were made bitter.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the fourth Angel sounded the trumpet. And a third part of the sun, and a third part of the moon, and a third part of the stars were struck, in such a way that a third part of them was obscured. And a third part of the day did not shine, and similarly the night.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I saw, and I heard the voice of a lone eagle flying through the midst of heaven, calling with a great voice: "Woe, Woe, Woe, to the inhabitants of the earth, from the remaining voices of the three Angels, who will soon sound the trumpet!"</p>

</body>
</html>