<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After these things, I saw four Angels standing above the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, so that they would not blow upon the earth, nor upon the sea, nor upon any tree.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I saw another Angel ascending from the rising of the sun, having the Seal of the living God. And he cried out, in a great voice, to the four Angels to whom it was given to harm the earth and the sea,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> saying: "Do no harm to the earth, nor to the sea, nor to the trees, until we seal the servants of our God on their foreheads."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I heard the number of those who were sealed: one hundred and forty-four thousand sealed, out of every tribe of the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> From the tribe of Judah, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Ruben, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Gad, twelve thousand were sealed.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> From the tribe of Asher, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Naphtali, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Manasseh, twelve thousand were sealed.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> From the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Issachar, twelve thousand were sealed.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> From the tribe of Zebulun, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Joseph, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Benjamin, twelve thousand were sealed.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> After these things, I saw a great crowd, which no one could number, from all the nations and tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and in sight of the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they cried out, with a great voice, saying: "Salvation is from our God, who sits upon the throne, and from the Lamb."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And all the Angels were standing around the throne, with the elders and the four living creatures. And they fell upon their faces in view of the throne, and they worshipped God,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> saying: "Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving, honor and power and strength to our God, forever and ever. Amen."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And one of the elders responded and said to me: "These ones who are clothed in white robes, who are they? And where did they come from?"</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I said to him, "My lord, you know." And he said to me: "These are the ones who have come out of the great tribulation, and they have washed their robes and have made them white by the blood of the Lamb.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore, they are before the throne of God, and they serve him, day and night, in his temple. And the One who sits upon the throne shall dwell over them.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They shall not hunger, nor shall they thirst, anymore. Neither shall the sun beat down upon them, nor any heat.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the Lamb, who is in the midst of the throne, will rule over them, and he will lead them to the fountains of the waters of life. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes."</p>

</body>
</html>