<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I saw another sign in heaven, great and wondrous: seven Angels, holding the seven last afflictions. For with them, the wrath of God is completed.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I saw something like a sea of glass mixed with fire. And those who had overcome the beast and his image and the number of his name, were standing upon the sea of glass, holding the harps of God,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and singing the canticle of Moses, the servant of God, and the canticle of the Lamb, saying: "Great and wondrous are your works, Lord God Almighty. Just and true are your ways, King of all ages.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who shall not fear you, O Lord, and magnify your name? For you alone are blessed. For all nations shall approach and adore in your sight, because your judgments are manifest."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And after these things, I saw, and behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the seven Angels went forth from the temple, holding the seven afflictions, clothed with clean white linen, and girded around the chest with wide golden belts.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And one of the four living creatures gave to the seven Angels seven golden bowls, filled with the wrath of God, of the One who lives forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the temple was filled with smoke from the majesty of God and from his power. And no one was able to enter into the temple, until the seven afflictions of the seven Angels were completed.</p>

</body>
</html>