<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I saw that the Lamb had opened one of the seven seals. And I heard one of the four living creatures saying, in a voice like thunder: "Draw near and see."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I saw, and behold, a white horse. And he who was sitting upon it was holding a bow, and a crown was given to him, and he went forth conquering, so that he might prevail.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying: "Draw near and see."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And another horse went forth, which was red. And it was granted to him who was sitting upon it that he would take peace from the earth, and that they would kill one another. And a great sword was given to him.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying: "Draw near and see." And behold, a black horse. And he who was sitting upon it was holding a balance in his hand.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I heard something like a voice in the midst of the four living creatures saying, "A double measure of wheat for a denarius, and three double measures of barley for a denarius, but do no harm to wine and oil."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature saying: "Draw near and see."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And behold, a pale horse. And he who was sitting upon it, his name was Death, and Hell was following him. And authority was given to him over the four parts of the earth, to destroy by the sword, by famine, and by death, and by the creatures of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw, under the altar, the souls of those who had been slain because of the Word of God and because of the testimony that they held.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they were crying out with a loud voice, saying: "How long, O Holy and True Lord, will you not judge and not vindicate our blood against those who dwell upon the earth?"</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And white robes were given to each of them. And they were told that they should rest for a brief time, until their fellow servants and their brothers, who were to be slain even as they were slain, would be completed.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when he had opened the sixth seal, I saw, and behold, a great earthquake occurred. And the sun became black, like a haircloth sack, and the entire moon became like blood.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the stars from heaven fell upon the earth, just as when a fig tree, shaken by a great wind, drops its immature figs.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And heaven receded, like a scroll being rolled up. And every mountain, and the islands, were moved from their places.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the kings of the earth, and the rulers, and the military leaders, and the wealthy, and the strong, and everyone, servant and free, hid themselves in caves and among the rocks of the mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they said to the mountains and the rocks: "Fall over us and hide us from the face of the One sitting upon the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the great day of their wrath has arrived. And who will be able to stand?"</p>

</body>
</html>