<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And a reed, similar to a staff, was given to me. And it was said to me: "Rise up and measure the temple of God, and those who are worshiping in it, and the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But the atrium, which is outside of the temple, set it aside and do not measure it, because it has been given over to the Gentiles. And they shall trample upon the Holy City for forty-two months.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I will present my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy for one thousand two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands, standing in the sight of the lord of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And if anyone will want to harm them, fire shall go forth from their mouths, and it shall devour their enemies. And if anyone will want to wound them, so must he be slain.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> These have the power to close up the heavens, so that it may not rain during the days of their prophesying. And they have power over the waters, to convert them into blood, and to strike the earth with every kind of affliction as often as they will.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when they will have finished their testimony, the beast that ascended from the abyss will make war against them, and will overcome them, and will kill them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And their bodies shall lie in the streets of the Great City, which is figuratively called 'Sodom' and 'Egypt,' the place where their Lord also was crucified.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And those from the tribes and peoples and languages and nations shall be watching their bodies for three and one half days. And they shall not permit their bodies to be placed in tombs.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the inhabitants of the earth will rejoice over them, and they will celebrate, and they will send gifts to one another, because these two prophets tortured those who were living upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And after three and one half days, the spirit of life from God entered into them. And they stood upright on their feet. And a great fear fell over those who saw them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they heard a great voice from heaven, saying to them, "Ascend to here!" And they ascended into heaven on a cloud. And their enemies saw them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And at that hour, a great earthquake occurred. And one tenth part of the City fell. And the names of the men slain in the earthquake were seven thousand. And the remainder were thrown into fear, and they gave glory to the God of heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The second woe has gone out, but behold, the third woe approaches quickly.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the seventh Angel sounded the trumpet. And there were great voices in heaven, saying: "The kingdom of this world has become our Lord's and his Christ's, and he shall reign forever and ever. Amen."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the twenty-four elders, who sit on their thrones in the sight of God, fell upon their faces, and they adored God, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> "We give thanks to you, Lord God Almighty, who is, and who was, and who is to come. For you have taken your great power, and you have reigned.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the nations became angry, but your wrath arrived, and the time for the dead to be judged, and to render a reward to your servants the prophets, and to the saints, and to those who fear your name, small and great, and to exterminate those who have corrupted the earth."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the temple of God was opened in heaven. And the Ark of his Testament was seen in his temple. And there were lightnings and voices and thunders, and an earthquake, and great hail.</p>

</body>
</html>