<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And after these things, I saw another Angel, descending from heaven, having great authority. And the earth was illuminated by his glory.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he cried out with strength, saying: "Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great. And she has become the habitation of demons, and the keepsake of every unclean spirit, and the possession of every unclean and hateful flying thing.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For all the nations have imbibed the wine of the wrath of her fornication. And the kings of the earth have fornicated with her. And the merchants of the earth have become wealthy by the power of her pleasures."</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I heard another voice from heaven, saying: "Go away from her, my people, so that you may not be participants in her pleasures, and so that you may not be recipients of her afflictions.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For her sins have pierced through even to heaven, and the Lord has remembered her iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Render to her, as she has also rendered to you. And repay her doubly, according to her works. Mix for her a double portion, in the cup with which she mixed.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As much as she has glorified herself and lived in pleasure, so much so give to her torment and grief. For in her heart, she has said: 'I am enthroned as queen,' and, 'I am not a widow,' and, 'I shall not see sorrow.'</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For this reason, her afflictions shall arrive in one day: death and grief and famine. And she shall be burned with fire. For God, who will judge her, is strong.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the kings of the earth, who have fornicated with her and lived in luxury, shall weep and mourn for themselves over her, when they see the smoke of her conflagration,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> standing far away, out of fear of her torments, saying: 'Woe! Woe! to Babylon, that great city, that strong city. For in one hour, your judgment has arrived.'</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the businessmen of the earth shall weep and mourn over her, because no one will buy their merchandise anymore:</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> merchandise of gold and silver and precious stones and pearls, and of fine linen and purple and silk and scarlet, and of every citrus tree wood, and of every tool of ivory, and of every tool from precious stone and brass and iron and marble,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and of cinnamon and black cardamom, and of fragrances and ointments and incense, and of wine and oil and fine flour and wheat, and of beasts of burden and sheep and horses and four-wheeled wagons, and of slaves and the souls of men.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the fruits of the desires of your soul have gone away from you. And all things fat and splendid have perished from you. And they shall never find these things again.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The merchants of these things, who were made wealthy, shall stand far away from her, out of fear of her torments, weeping and mourning,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and saying: 'Woe! Woe! to that great city, which was clothed with fine linen and purple and scarlet, and which was adorned with gold and precious stones and pearls.'</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For such great wealth was brought to destitution in one hour. And every shipmaster, and all who navigate on lakes, and mariners, and those who work at sea, stood far away.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they cried out, seeing the place of her conflagration, saying: 'What city resembles this great city?'</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they cast dust upon their heads. And they cried out, weeping and mourning, saying: 'Woe! Woe! to that great city, by which all who had ships at sea were made rich from her treasures. For she has been made desolate in one hour.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Exult over her, O heaven, O holy Apostles and Prophets. For God has judged your judgment upon her.' "</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And a certain strong Angel took up a stone, similar to a great millstone, and he cast it into the sea, saying: "With this force shall Babylon, that great city, be cast down. And she shall never be found again.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the sound of singers, and musicians, and flute and trumpet players shall not be heard in you again. And every artisan of every art shall not be found in you again. And the sound of the mill shall not be heard in you again.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the light of the lamp shall not shine in you again. And the voice of the groom and of the bride shall not be heard in you anymore. For your merchants were the leaders of the earth. For all the nations were led astray by your drugs.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And in her was found the blood of the Prophets and of the Saints, and of all who were slain upon the earth."</p>

</body>
</html>