<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I saw another strong Angel, descending from heaven, clothed with a cloud. And a rainbow was upon his head, and his face was like the sun, and his feet were like columns of fire.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he held in his hand a small open book. And he stationed his right foot upon the sea, and his left foot upon the land.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he cried out with a great voice, in the manner of a lion roaring. And when he had cried out, seven thunders uttered their voices.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices, I was about to write. But I heard a voice from heaven, saying to me: "Seal the things that the seven thunders have spoken, and do not write them."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Angel, whom I saw standing upon the sea and upon the land, lifted up his hand toward heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he swore by the One who lives forever and ever, who created heaven, and the things that are in it; and the earth, and the things that are in it; and the sea, and the things that are in it: that the time will not be any longer,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> but in the days of the voice of the seventh Angel, when he shall begin to sound the trumpet, the mystery of God will be completed, just as he has proclaimed in the Gospel, through his servants the Prophets.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And again, I heard a voice from heaven speaking with me and saying: "Go and receive the open book from the hand of the Angel who stands upon the sea and upon the land."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I went to the Angel, saying to him that he should give the book to me. And he said to me: "Receive the book and consume it. And it shall cause bitterness in your stomach, but in your mouth it shall be sweet like honey."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I received the book from the hand of the Angel, and I consumed it. And it was sweet like honey in my mouth. And when I had consumed it, my stomach was made bitter.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said to me, "It is necessary for you to prophesy again about many nations and peoples and languages and kings."</p>

</body>
</html>