<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I heard a great voice from the temple, saying to the seven Angels: "Go forth and pour out the seven bowls of the wrath of God upon the earth."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the first Angel went forth and poured out his bowl upon the earth. And a severe and most grievous wound occurred upon the men who had the character of the beast, and upon those who adored the beast or its image.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the second Angel poured out his bowl upon the sea. And it became like the blood of the dead, and every living creature in the sea died.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the third Angel poured out his bowl upon the rivers and the sources of water, and these became blood.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I heard the Angel of the waters saying: "You are just, O Lord, who is and who was: the Holy One who has judged these things.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For they have shed the blood of the Saints and the Prophets, and so you have given them blood to drink. For they deserve this."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And from the altar, I heard another one, saying, "Even now, O Lord God Almighty, your judgments are true and just."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the fourth Angel poured out his bowl upon the sun. And it was given to him to afflict men with heat and fire.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And men were scorched by the great heat, and they blasphemed the name of God, who holds power over these afflictions, but they did not repent, so as to give him glory.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the fifth Angel poured out his bowl upon the throne of the beast. And his kingdom became darkened, and they gnawed at their tongues out of anguish.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they blasphemed the God of heaven, because of their anguish and wounds, but they did not repent from their works.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the sixth Angel poured out his bowl upon that great river Euphrates. And its water dried up, so that a way might be prepared for the kings from the rising of the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I saw, from the mouth of the dragon, and from the mouth of the beast, and from the mouth of the false prophetess, three unclean spirits go out in the manner of frogs.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For these are the spirits of the demons that were causing the signs. And they advance to the kings of the entire earth, to gather them for battle on the great day of Almighty God.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> "Behold, I arrive like a thief. Blessed is he who is vigilant and who preserves his vestment, lest he walk naked and they see his disgrace."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he shall gather them together at a place which is called, in Hebrew, Armageddon.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the seventh Angel poured out his bowl upon the air. And a great voice went out of the temple from the throne, saying: "It is done."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And there were lightnings and voices and thunders. And a great earthquake occurred, of a kind such as has never happened since men have been upon the earth, so great was this kind of earthquake.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the Great City became divided into three parts. And the cities of the Gentiles fell. And Babylon the great came to mind before God, to give her the cup of the wine of the indignation of his wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And hail as heavy as a talent descended from the sky upon men. And men blasphemed God, because of the affliction of the hail, for it was exceedingly great.</p>

</body>
</html>